    "item_name": "Plains",
    "description": "A flat biome mainly composed of gentle hills. Due to its wide open view, it is easy to spot unusual terrain features like lava pools. It usually forms flat terrain around Y=64, but sometimes forms plateaus like meadows.\nShort grass, tall grass, and bushes grow on the grass block surface, and oak trees may occasionally grow individually. Flowers that can spawn include not only dandelions and poppies, but also azure bluets, oxeye daisies, and cornflowers. Pigs, sheep, cows, chickens, horses, and donkeys spawn here, along with villages and pillager outposts.",
    "tags": ["Plains", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Sunflower Plains",
    "description": "A variant of the plains biome, and the only biome where sunflowers generate.",
    "tags": ["Plains", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Snowy Plains",
    "description": "The grass block surface is covered with snow, and spruce trees may occasionally grow individually. Unlike regular plains, tall grass does not generate.\nPigs, sheep, cows, chickens, horses, and donkeys do not spawn. Instead, rabbits and polar bears spawn. Additionally, there is an 80% chance for strays to spawn on the surface instead of regular skeletons. Structures such as igloos, villages, and pillager outposts can generate here.",
    "tags": ["Plains", "Polar"]


    "item_name": "Inverted Icicle",
    "description": "A rare variant of the snowy plains, densely packed with giant inverted icicles made of solid frozen ice.  
It was inspired by the phenomenon known as 'nieves penitentes'.",
    "tags": ["Plains, Frigid"],


    "item_name": "Savanna",
    "description": "A biome with a flat terrain where acacia trees and a few short oaks are sparsely distributed. Short and tall grass grow on grass blocks. Tropical pigs, sheep, cows, chickens, horses, donkeys, and armadillos spawn here, along with villages and pillager outposts.",
    "tags": ["Plains, Arid"],
   

    "item_name": "Savanna Plateau",
    "description": "A highland area of the savanna with flat tops, similar to hills. Unlike regular savannas, wolves and llamas spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Plains, Arid"],
   

    "item_name": "Desert",
    "description": "A barren biome composed of sand dunes. The surface is layered with sand and sandstone underneath. Vegetation includes dead bushes, dry grass, and cacti. Like plains, its open visibility makes it easy to find unique terrain. Rabbits and camels spawn as passive mobs, while husks commonly replace regular zombies. Villages, desert pyramids, pillager outposts, desert wells, and fossils generate here.  
The surface sand layer is about 4–6 meters deep. Usually, there's sandstone underneath to prevent burial by falling sand, but in rare cases (e.g. canyon overlap), if the sandstone is missing, sand won’t fall until updated. Breaking one block or placing one above it may cause a sudden collapse. In very unlucky cases, only one layer of sand remains, and placing a torch can cause a fall to your death.  
In dry climates, deserts can replace beaches as coastal biomes.",
    "tags": ["Plains, Arid"],
   

    "item_name": "Badlands",
    "description": "Similar to deserts but made of red sand and orange terracotta instead of regular sand and sandstone. Dry grass spawns here, and the terrain shows layers of white, orange, brown, and red terracotta. Armadillos spawn as passive mobs.  
This biome spawns gold ore 50 extra times between y=32–256, making gold more abundant than in other biomes. Mineshafts also spawn at higher altitudes and often appear exposed above ground. These mineshafts use dark oak for logs, planks, and fences. The biome is themed after the American Gold Rush. However, gold mining may still be hard if an underground cave biome lies below.  
When generated next to other biomes (except oceans and rivers), a thin desert band always appears in between. This band may border even frigid biomes.",
    "tags": ["Plains, Arid"],
   

    "item_name": "Wooded Badlands",
    "description": "A variant of badlands where oak trees grow above Y=97. The ground is made of coarse dirt and grass blocks with fallen leaves. Tropical pigs, sheep, cows, chickens, and wolves spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Plains, Arid"],
   

    "item_name": "Eroded Badlands",
    "description": "A variant of badlands, composed of butte-like pillars made of terracotta.",
    "tags": ["Plains, Arid"],
   

    "item_name": "Windswept Hills",
    "description": "A biome of steep terrain that generates where erosion, PV value, and continentality are high. This means flat and rugged areas coexist far from the ocean.  
Highlands here exceed Y=150, featuring cliffs, valleys, peaks, waterfalls, outcrops, and sky islands. Caves are more common here, and falling is a serious danger due to height.  
The surface consists of grass blocks, stone, dirt, granite, andesite, diorite, and gravel, with coal, iron, copper, and emerald ores exposed. Spruce and oak trees occasionally grow alone, and bushes spawn. Cold-climate pigs, sheep, cows, chickens, and llamas appear.",
    "tags": ["Hills, Cold"],
   

    "item_name": "Windswept Forest",
    "description": "A variant of windswept hills, densely populated with spruce and oak trees. The ground is composed only of grass blocks.",
    "tags": ["Hills, Cold"],
   

    "item_name": "Windswept Gravelly Hills",
    "description": "Similar to windswept hills but with a higher proportion of gravel on the surface.",
    "tags": ["Hills, Cold"],
   

    "item_name": "Windswept Savanna",
    "description": "A rare variant of savanna, generated where erosion and weirdness are high. This results in sharp cliffs rising from sea level to very high altitudes, similar to amplified worlds.  
Despite its height, the area covered is usually small. It rarely borders regular savannas, as it prioritizes the special conditions for generation. Also, snowy or cold biomes are excluded from spawning next to it.",
    "tags": ["Hills, Arid"],
   

    "item_name": "Snowy Slopes",
    "description": "A barren terrain with many snow blocks and powder snow. It typically generates between treeless biomes and peaks, and appears at lower altitudes near frigid climates. Rabbits and goats spawn here, and it's the only mountainous biome where igloos generate.",
    "tags": ["Slopes, Frigid"],
   

    "item_name": "Grove",
    "description": "Similar to snowy taiga, with snow-covered spruce trees, but also includes powder snow. It generates between forest-type biomes and peaks, and appears lower if near frigid climates. Rabbits, foxes, and wolves spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Slopes, Frigid"],
   

    "item_name": "Meadow",
    "description": "Cooler in temperature but similar to plains with grassy surfaces, oak and birch trees, and various flowers including dandelions, poppies, alliums, azure bluets, oxeye daisies, cornflowers, and wildflowers. Lone oak or birch trees sometimes spawn with a beehive.  
It is the only mountain-type biome where villages can generate.",
    "tags": ["Slopes, Temperate (JE), Cold (BE)"],
   

    "item_name": "Cherry Grove",
    "description": "A slope-type biome with cherry trees. Petal particles fall beneath the leaves, and the ground is covered in grass and pink petals. Pigs, sheep, and rabbits spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Slopes, Temperate (JE), Cold (BE)"],
   

    "item_name": "Jagged Peaks",
    "description": "A snowy, rocky mountain peak. Jagged peaks can rise high enough to touch the clouds. Goats spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Peaks, Frigid"],
   

    "item_name": "Frozen Peaks",
    "description": "Snowy mountain peaks with glaciers or ice blocks formed from packed ice. Goats spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Peaks, Frigid"],
   

    "item_name": "Stony Peaks",
    "description": "The only peak-type biome in a temperate climate. It has the highest temperature among biomes where it can rain. Typically appears when mountains form in temperate or arid zones.  
It usually generates alone without slope biomes, and does not spawn in snowy mountain chains unless near warm biomes. Bands of calcite, exposed coal, iron, and emerald ores appear. Due to overlapping high-yield ore zones, it’s resource-rich if you avoid falling.",
    "tags": ["Peaks, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Forest",
    "description": "Densely packed with oak and birch trees, along with mushrooms, bushes, fallen leaves, and various plants. Wolves spawn here. It sometimes spawns in the center of plains and often has a diameter well over 200m.  
Because of the shade, hostile mobs don't die easily even in daylight, making ambushes more likely.",
    "tags": ["Forest, Temperate"],


    "item_name": "Flower Forest",
    "description": "A variant of the Forest biome, featuring a wide variety of flowers growing in aesthetically pleasing patterns. One-block-high flowers include dandelions (JE), poppies, alliums, azure bluets, four types of tulips, oxeye daisies, cornflowers, and lilies of the valley. Two-block-high flowers include lilacs, rose bushes, and peonies. Nearly every flower except blue orchids and sunflowers generates naturally. Trees and grass grow with some spacing, and unlike regular forests, wolves do not spawn, but rabbits do.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Birch Forest",
    "description": "A forest made entirely of birch trees. Unlike regular forests, wolves do not spawn here. On the surface of grass blocks, short grass and bushes grow. Two-block-high flowers like lilacs, rose bushes, and peonies appear, along with lilies of the valley and tulips.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Old Growth Birch Forest",
    "description": "A variant of the birch forest where tall birch trees generate. Ruined portals can be found here.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Dark Forest",
    "description": "Densely packed dark oak trees grow so thickly they block the sky like a roof. The density makes it dark enough for monsters to spawn even during daytime. Oak and birch trees, fallen leaves, and giant mushrooms also generate. Though not as demanding as jungles, it still uses significant hardware resources. Woodland mansions generate here.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Pale Garden",
    "description": "A rare variant of the Dark Forest biome, where pale oaks grow. The environment appears gloomy and dim even during daylight. No passive animals spawn naturally, and ambient music temporarily cuts out here. Woodland mansions generate in this biome.\nThe surface is made up of grass blocks and pale moss blocks, with pale moss carpets scattered on top. Eyebloom flowers are sparsely placed, and gray particles fall like fluttering leaves from under pale oak leaves. Pale hanging moss grows beneath leaves or logs. In naturally generated pale oaks, a Creeping Heart block can sometimes be found inside, which summons the Creeping at night.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Taiga",
    "description": "A biome densely populated with spruce trees. The surface consists of grass blocks with short grass, ferns, tall ferns, and sweet berry bushes. Cold-climate variants of pigs, sheep, cows, chickens, as well as rabbits, foxes, and wolves spawn here. Structures such as villages, pillager outposts, and ruined portals generate.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Cold"]


    "item_name": "Old Growth Pine Taiga",
    "description": "A variant of the Taiga biome, featuring giant spruce trees in 2×2 trunk formations. The surface consists of grass blocks, podzol, and coarse dirt, with boulders made of mossy cobblestone (up to 3×3 in size). Brown and red mushrooms, along with dead bushes, are abundant. Ruined portals generate here.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Cold"]


    "item_name": "Old Growth Spruce Taiga",
    "description": "A variant of the Old Growth Pine Taiga biome, with spruce trees that have longer leaf coverage reaching further downward. Ruined portals generate here.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Cold"]


    "item_name": "Snowy Taiga",
    "description": "A biome where spruce trees grow densely over a snow-covered surface. Sweet berry bushes generate here. Foxes spawn with white fur as arctic foxes, and pigs, cows, and chickens spawn in their cold-climate variants. Igloos and ruined portals generate here. In Bedrock Edition, villages and pillager outposts also generate.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Polar"]


    "item_name": "Jungle",
    "description": "A dense tropical jungle biome. Large trees can reach up to 32 meters in height. Unique mobs include ocelots, parrots, and pandas. Pigs, cows, and chickens spawn in their tropical variants. Cocoa, melons, and bamboo also generate. Due to dense foliage, monsters can sometimes spawn during the day. Jungle temples and ruined portals can be found.\nLike real-world jungles, it’s hot and humid—warmer than most but cooler than arid regions.\nDue to the extremely dense tree coverage, the terrain is poorly suited for building. Because most trees are tall, it’s often better to burn down the surroundings rather than chop them down individually when making space. With numerous block types like tall trees, abundant leaves, and vines, the jungle demands considerable hardware resources.",
    "tags": ["Forest", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Sparse Jungle",
    "description": "Generated at the edge of jungles, and sometimes appears alone without connecting to other jungles. The density of the rainforest is low, and large jungle trees do not generate.",
    "tags": ["Forest, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Bamboo Jungle",
    "description": "A variant of the jungle. A large number of bamboo grow densely on dirt and podzol. Pandas spawn frequently here. In Java Edition, jungle temples can generate.",
    "tags": ["Forest, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "River",
    "description": "Rivers cut through and replace existing biomes. The terrain is winding and filled with water up to sea level (y=63). Rarely, rivers form above sea level and appear as dry riverbeds without water, where oaks and bushes may generate. The riverbed consists of dirt, clay, gravel, and sand, with seagrass growing on top. Sugar cane appears along the banks. Unlike real rivers, the water does not flow. Squid and salmon spawn as passive mobs, and drowned as hostile mobs.",
    "tags": ["Wetlands, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Frozen River",
    "description": "A river variant biome where the surface is frozen with liquid water beneath. Unlike normal rivers, seagrass does not generate. Mostly spawns in frigid climates but sometimes in taigas as well. Squid, salmon, and drowned spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Wetlands, Frigid"],
   

    "item_name": "Swamp",
    "description": "A vast pond zone at sea level with lily pads. Water is murkier than in other biomes with the same temperature, and vegetation colors are darker. Grass color within the biome varies depending on temperature. The pond floor has dirt and clay, with seagrass growing. Occasionally overlaps with oceans. Oak trees grow throughout, with long vines hanging down. Unique to this biome are blue orchids. At night, slimes may spawn between Y=51–69. Witch huts generate here.",
    "tags": ["Wetlands, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Mangrove Swamp",
    "description": "A swamp variant that typically generates near jungles or deserts. Dense mangrove trees of varying heights grow, and the surface is mostly mud. Beehives and bees can occasionally be found on the mangrove trees.  
White frogs spawn, and tropical fish can be seen underwater. Unlike regular swamps, animals like sheep, cows, pigs, and chickens do not spawn.",
    "tags": ["Wetlands, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Beach",
    "description": "Generated where land meets ocean. However, not all coastal areas generate beaches. Mostly composed of sand, with some gravel. Like rivers, it replaces pre-existing biomes.  
In cold temperatures, snowy beaches appear instead; in arid climates, deserts replace them.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Snowy Beach",
    "description": "Covered in snow atop sand, with ice forming along the shoreline.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Frigid"],
   

    "item_name": "Stony Shore",
    "description": "A beach variant biome generated in areas with low erosion and rugged terrain. Higher areas can exceed y=140. The surface is mostly stone, along with granite, diorite, andesite, and gravel.  
Due to exposed rocky surfaces, coal, iron, and copper ores can be found above ground, making this biome great for early resource gathering.  
In Bedrock Edition, buried treasure can also generate here.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Cold"],
   

    "item_name": "Ocean",
    "description": "The most basic form of ocean biome. The floor is covered with dirt, sand, gravel, and clay, with kelp and seagrass growing. Usually spans under 3000m in radius. Small islands may appear, and mobs like donkeys spawn if conditions are met.  
If caves open into this biome, they become underwater caves. Squid, cod, dolphins, and drowned spawn here; salmon do not.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Deep Ocean",
    "description": "A variant of ocean biome with depths exceeding 30m. Magma blocks in ravines create bubble columns that pull entities downward.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Frozen Ocean",
    "description": "An ocean biome with floating icebergs. The water surface is dark blue. Shallow areas have dirt, sand, gravel, and clay; deeper ones only have gravel. Kelp and seagrass do not generate.  
This biome has two climate zones: frigid and cold. They form irregular regions of certain radii, with one often surrounding the other.  
At temperature 0 (frigid), the sea has a flat ice layer and snow falls at all heights. Snow does not accumulate on packed ice.  
At temperature 0.2 (cold), rain falls up to y120, mixes with snow between y121–127, and only snow falls above y128.  
Icebergs spawn irregularly, made of packed ice, snow blocks, or blue ice. Blue ice tends to be near sea level, snow blocks higher up.  
Polar bears spawn on flat ice. On icebergs, zombies, skeletons, creepers, spiders, and endermen spawn. Underwater, squid, salmon, and drowned appear.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Frigid, Cold (Partial)(JE)"],
   

    "item_name": "Deep Frozen Ocean",
    "description": "A deeper variant of the frozen ocean. The seabed is mostly gravel. In Java Edition, temperature is above 0.15, so no flat ice layer forms and polar bears do not spawn.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Cold (Partial)(JE), Temperate (Partial)(JE), Frigid (BE)"],
   

    "item_name": "Cold Ocean",
    "description": "A variant of the ocean biome. Shallow areas have dirt, sand, gravel, and clay; deeper areas have only gravel. Unlike frozen oceans, kelp and seagrass grow on the seabed.  
Squid, salmon, cod, and drowned spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Deep Cold Ocean",
    "description": "A deeper variant of the cold ocean. The seabed is covered only with gravel.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Lukewarm Ocean",
    "description": "A variant of the ocean biome. Shallow areas have dirt, sand, gravel, and clay; deeper areas have sand instead of gravel. Kelp and seagrass grow on the seabed. The lighter water makes it easier to see underwater.  
Squid, cod, and tropical fish spawn as passive mobs; pufferfish and dolphins as neutral; drowned as hostile.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Deep Lukewarm Ocean",
    "description": "A deeper variant of the lukewarm ocean. The seabed is covered only with sand.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Warm Ocean",
    "description": "A vibrant marine biome full of tropical fish, colorful coral reefs, and glowing sea pickles. The floor is covered only in sand with seagrass growing. Kelp does not generate.  
Squid, tropical fish, pufferfish, and dolphins spawn, and drowned appear near underwater ruins.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Mushroom Fields",
    "description": "A very rare biome, often generated as an island surrounded by deep ocean due to having the lowest continentality value. Rarely, it may connect to land. It also has the highest rainfall of any biome.  
The surface is made of mycelium, with mushrooms and giant mushrooms growing throughout. Mooshrooms spawn in herds.  
Occasionally, grass blocks or sand appear on the edges, with short grass and sugar cane at sea level.  
Unless lush caves form underground, there are no trees. No other mobs spawn naturally except mooshrooms, glow squids, bats (JE), and phantoms (JE). Other mobs may appear only via spawners in mineshafts/dungeons, wandering traders, raids in player-made villages, or drowned from nearby shores.",
    "tags": ["Oceanic, Temperate"],
   

    "item_name": "Lush Caves",
    "description": "A biome full of cave flora. Azalea trees grow above ground. Underground, grass, azalea bushes, mossy floors cover the cave floor.  
Cave vines and spore blossoms grow from the ceiling; moss blocks cover floor and ceiling. Pools with clay and drip leaf also appear.  
Axolotls spawn under the right conditions; tropical fish appear even though it's not an ocean biome.  
Lush caves generate in humid regions, such as dark forests, jungles, or giant tree taigas. Rarely, they may appear under deserts.  
Usually generated as directional cave systems, but occasionally a giant ring-shaped lush cave forms, creating a dramatic sinkhole-like terrain, especially under lakes or oceans, resembling a blue hole.",
    "tags": ["Cave, Temperate"],


    "item_name": "Dripstone Caves",
    "description": "A cave biome filled with dripstone blocks. Pointed dripstone forms stalactites, stalagmites, or full columns, and large dripstone clusters can be seen. Large copper ore veins generate more frequently here compared to other biomes. As expected from the presence of stalactites, water dripping sound effects can be heard.\nDripstone Caves generate far from oceans.",
    "tags": ["Cave", "Temperate (JE)", "Cold (BE)"]


    "item_name": "Deep Dark",
    "description": "A cave biome where Sculk blocks form the sculk region. It is the rarest of the cave biomes and is typically found below Y=0.\nAncient Cities and related structures can generate, but mineshafts and trial chambers do not. In Java Edition, ruined portals are also excluded. Unlike normal caves, it is very dark due to the lack of glow lichen. Unless certain conditions are met (such as Sculk Shriekers triggering the Warden or structures present), mobs do not spawn here.\nSculk blocks found here drop experience when broken, making it a valuable XP farm with just a hoe.\nThe Deep Dark generates at least 140 blocks below the surface and tends to form beneath large continents or mountainous biomes, including badlands.",
    "tags": ["Cave", "Temperate"]


    "item_name": "Nether Wastes",
    "description": "The most common biome in the Nether, with most surfaces covered in Netherrack and scattered fires. Brown and red mushrooms may occasionally grow.\nZombified Piglins, Piglins, Ghasts, Magma Cubes, Endermen, and Striders spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Nether"]


    "item_name": "Crimson Forest",
    "description": "The surface is made of crimson nylium. Huge fungi structures made of crimson stems and nether wart blocks grow throughout. Vines hang from the fungus caps. The biome features red fog and red spore particle effects.\nHoglins, Piglins, Zombified Piglins, and Striders spawn here.",
    "tags": ["Nether"]


    "item_name": "Warped Forest",
    "description": "The surface is made of warped nylium. Huge fungi made of warped stems and warped wart blocks, as well as twisted vines, grow throughout. Purple fog fills the air with dark cyan spores as particle effects.\nEndermen and Striders spawn here. This biome contains no hostile mobs by default, making it one of the safest biomes in the Nether. Due to its peaceful nature, players often visit it to farm Ender Pearls.",
    "tags": ["Nether"]


    "item_name": "Soul Sand Valley",
    "description": "The ground is thickly covered with soul sand and soul soil. Blue fog hangs in the air. Nether fossils generate here. Lavafalls may appear, and in some cases, basalt pillars form as if the lava solidified.\nSkeletons, Ghasts, Endermen, and Striders spawn here. Although useful for collecting soul sand, the biome is dangerous due to slowed movement and high concentrations of ranged attackers like skeletons.",
    "tags": ["Nether"]


    "item_name": "Basalt Deltas",
    "description": "A biome mainly composed of basalt and blackstone, with jagged basalt pillars creating harsh terrain. Lava pools and magma blocks are scattered throughout. White fog fills the air along with ash-like particle effects. Its unique environment acts like a pseudo-structure similar to desert wells or dead trees.\nMagma Cubes, Ghasts, and Striders spawn here. Because of the rough terrain and the high spawn rate of hostile mobs, it’s one of the most dangerous Nether biomes, especially if it becomes the player’s spawn point. In Bedrock Edition, players may even die from Magma Cubes during world loading. The biome soundscape includes a Geiger counter click, emphasizing its hostility.\nUnlike other Nether biomes where forced water placement turns it red, water in Basalt Deltas appears blue like in the Overworld.\nNether Quartz and Gold Ore generation is higher here, adjusted to compensate for the lower density of Netherrack.",
    "tags": ["Nether"]


    "item_name": "The End",
    "description": "Covers a circular area with a radius of 1,000 blocks centered at coordinates (0, 0) in the End dimension, encompassing the central End island. If the End dimension is generated as usual, the Ender Dragon boss spawns here. Visiting this biome is required to view the game's ending.\nOther End biomes appear after leaving this central region.",
    "tags": ["End"]


    "item_name": "End Highlands (JE)",
    "description": "Located in the center of large islands in the outer End. The only biome where chorus plants generate naturally. Its wide range often overlaps into the End Midlands.",
    "tags": ["End"]


    "item_name": "End Midlands (JE)",
    "description": "A mid-level area surrounding the End Highlands.",
    "tags": ["End"]


    "item_name": "End Barrens (JE)",
    "description": "A biome located at the outer edges of large islands in the outer End, usually found between End Midlands and Small End Islands.",
    "tags": ["End"]


    "item_name": "Small End Islands (JE)",
    "description": "A biome composed of small floating circular islands made of End Stone, located between the larger End islands. They often serve as midpoints when teleporting between islands using Ender Pearls.",
    "tags": ["End"]


    "item_name": "Zombie",
    "description": "Zombies spawn in groups of four on solid blocks at light level 0. They also appear in dungeons with mob spawners. Like skeletons, they catch fire when exposed to sunlight after the sun rises more than 15°. To avoid burning, they hide under trees, in caves, or underwater. Wearing any headgear, such as a helmet, prevents burning, but the gear will gradually lose durability.\nDrowned zombies that spawn in oceans, rivers, and aquifers in dripstone caves may drop tridents when killed.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Skeleton",
    "description": "In the Overworld, skeletons spawn at light level 0; in the Nether, they spawn in Soul Sand Valley biomes at light level 7 or below. Skeletons attack players, iron golems, and baby turtles. They flee from wolves, regardless of taming status.\nThey are the only hostile mobs to use ranged attacks. Like zombies, they burn in direct sunlight unless wearing a helmet, which will wear down over time.\nWither Skeletons spawn in Nether Fortresses and can drop wither skeleton skulls upon death.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


   "item_name": "Phantom",
    "description": "A flying undead mob in the Overworld. It spawns at night or during thunderstorms if a player hasn’t slept for 3 in-game days (about 1 real-time hour). The timer resets when the player sleeps or dies. Phantoms only spawn if no blocks are overhead.\nThey circle in the sky, then swoop to attack with a screech. If damaged, they flee upward. Phantoms can pursue players underwater and aren’t slowed like most mobs.\nThey fear cats and ocelots, staying at least 16 blocks away. Cats are very effective against phantoms, even causing them to abort attacks mid-swoop.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Slime",
    "description": "Slimes spawn at Y levels 50–70 in swamps and mangrove swamps during the night when light level is 7 or below. Spawn rates increase with fuller moons and stop during new moons. They drop slimeballs when killed.\nIn the Nether, magma cubes spawn instead, dropping magma cream.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Guardian",
    "description": "A hostile, fish-like mob that guards ocean monuments. It has a cyan body with 12 orange spikes resembling prismarine bricks and one eye. The spikes retract when idle and extend during attacks. Guardians attack players, squids, glow squids, and axolotls within their line of sight but don’t pursue them.\nThey fire a laser beam that changes from purple to yellow and finally to green after 2 seconds, dealing damage. After attacking, they swim around for 3 seconds before attacking again. If approached mid-attack, they flee before resuming fire. Elder Guardians are the boss mobs of ocean monuments.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Pillager",
    "description": "Resembling villagers but with gray skin and aggressive expressions, pillagers wear dark clothes. Found in Woodland Mansions or Pillager Outposts in dark forests or open fields. Patrols and raid parties appear throughout the world.\nSome pillagers carry an ‘Ominous Banner’ as raid captains. There are different types: Pillager, Vindicator, Evoker, and Illusioner. Pillager captains often spawn at outposts. Evokers found in Woodland Mansions drop the Totem of Undying when defeated.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Creeper",
    "description": "Creepers spawn in the Overworld on solid blocks at light level 0. When within 3 blocks of a target, they begin hissing and flashing, exploding 1.5 seconds later with a power level of 3. During the countdown, they can't move. If the target escapes in time, the explosion is canceled.\nIf struck by lightning, creepers become Charged Creepers with nearly double the blast power and radius. However, they usually have reduced health from the lightning strike.\nWhen a Charged Creeper kills another mob such as a skeleton, wither skeleton, zombie, creeper, or piglin, that mob's head is dropped.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Ghast",
    "description": "A large, jellyfish-like mob found in the Nether in biomes such as Nether Wastes, Basalt Deltas, and Soul Sand Valleys. They spawn regardless of light level but require a 5×4×5 area and a solid floor (excluding bedrock).\nGhasts attack players by floating and firing fireballs, but they don’t chase players. If the player escapes or hides behind blocks—even transparent ones—they lose interest.\nFireballs can be deflected or countered with melee. Defeating a ghast by knocking back its fireball completes the advancement “Return to Sender.” Looting-enchanted swords apply when killing it with a deflected fireball. If a zombified piglin is hit by a rebounded fireball, it will become hostile.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]
	
	
    "item_name": "Piglin",
    "description": "Piglins are humanoid pig-like creatures that resemble orcs. They live exclusively in the Nether and often form hunting parties, displaying tribal behavior.\nThey are hostile toward Wither Skeletons and the Wither. They hunt adult Hoglins but keep a distance of more than 6 blocks if outnumbered. Piglins have a 10% chance to dance after killing a Hoglin.\nThey usually spawn equipped with either a golden sword or a crossbow. Though they wear gold armor, it offers low protection, and their base health is also low. Despite that, Piglins are fast and can deal significant damage even to players wearing iron armor.\nPiglins are attracted to gold. When they see gold items held by another Piglin or a player, they “snort enviously.” They will actively pick up dropped gold items, examine them for 6 seconds, and either equip them (if wearable) or store them. Even if they already have better gear, they prefer gold items and will replace diamond or netherite with gold.\nPiglins are generally hostile to players unless the player wears at least one piece of gold armor, which makes them neutral.\nPlayers can barter with Piglins by offering gold ingots. Instead of an interface, the player can either right-click a Piglin with gold or toss the gold near it. The Piglin will accept and return a random item in exchange.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Warden",
    "description": "The Warden only appears in the Deep Dark cave biome and serves as a guardian of Ancient Cities. It can only be summoned through special mechanics and despawns if it has no target.\nIt is typically summoned when a Sculk Shrieker is triggered multiple times. Once the 'warning level' reaches 4, the Warden will emerge from the ground within an 11×13×11 area centered on the Shrieker. Breaking a shrieking Sculk Shrieker also causes it to spawn instantly.\nEvery 6 seconds, the Warden applies the Darkness effect to all players within 20 blocks, drastically reducing visibility regardless of hostility.\nThe Warden uses an “anger” system ranging from 0 to 150. Once anger toward a target reaches 80 or higher, the Warden roars for 4.2 seconds, adds 20 more anger, and begins chasing and attacking. While blind, the Warden behaves as if it can see, phasing through blocks and locking onto targets. If attacked within 5 blocks, it skips roaring and enters rage immediately. If its anger falls below 80, it stops pursuing.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Silverfish",
    "description": "Silverfish emerge when infested blocks are broken in mountain and windswept hill biomes, or under igloos. They also spawn from the silverfish spawner near the End Portal room in strongholds. The spawner only activates if the light level is 11 or lower and a player is within 5 blocks.\nThey may also spawn when a mob under the 'Infestation' status effect takes damage. Silverfish are immune to this effect themselves.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Blaze",
    "description": "Blazes spawn in Nether Fortresses at light level 11 or lower, and in Blaze spawners located on fortress balconies. They make distinctive breathing and metal clashing sounds.\nThey normally hover near the ground but float upward when detecting a player within 48 blocks. They maintain a height of 0.5 to 3.5 blocks above their target and shoot three fireballs after charging for 0.9 seconds. If blocked or if the player hides, they pause until the player reappears. After firing, Blazes remain ignited for 3 seconds, then cool for 5 seconds before attacking again.\nUnlike Ghast fireballs, Blaze fireballs can't be deflected and do not explode but can set blocks on fire.\nThey drop Blaze Rods upon defeat.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Witch",
    "description": "Witches spawn rarely at light level 0, one at a time. Villagers struck by lightning on difficulties above Easy also turn into witches. They spawn in swamp huts, and in Java Edition, witches are the only hostile mobs that spawn inside them.\nThey appear during raids on Normal difficulty and above. In Java Edition, they throw beneficial potions to aid Pillagers and do not retaliate if attacked by allies.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Pufferfish",
    "description": "A type of fish found in groups of 1–3 in Lukewarm and Warm Ocean biomes at Y=50–63 (Java Edition). When a player, axolotl, or land mob enters a 5×5×5 area around it, the pufferfish inflates. At full inflation, it deals damage and applies poison to nearby entities, even through blocks or out of water.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Endermite",
    "description": "Has a 5% chance to spawn when an Ender Pearl lands. Endermites despawn automatically after 2 minutes unless named with a name tag.\nThey attack players and any mob that hits them. In Bedrock Edition, they also attack Endermen. Endermen detect and attack Endermites spawned from Ender Pearls within 64 blocks, a mechanic commonly used to farm them.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Shulker",
    "description": "Shulkers are block-like mobs found in and around End Cities. They do not respawn once killed but do not despawn either.\nThey shoot homing bullets that follow the X, Y, and Z axes slowly toward the target. The bullets can be blocked with a shield or destroyed by hitting them. Getting hit causes 4 damage and applies 10 seconds of Levitation. Though dangerous, this can be used to reach high places like End Ships.\nDefeating a Shulker yields a Shulker Shell, which can be used to craft Shulker Boxes.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Hoglin",
    "description": "Large boar-like mobs in the Nether with tusks and a dark mane. Spawn in groups of 3–4 in Crimson Forests or Hoglin Stables in Bastions. There’s a 5% chance to spawn as a baby Hoglin. Babies are hostile but weak and flee when hit.\nThough a hostile mob, Hoglins are also considered animals and can drop food and leather. They can be bred with Crimson Fungi and led with leads or tied to fences. Offspring or tamed Hoglins never despawn but remain aggressive.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]
	

    "item_name": "Zoglin",
    "description": "A zombified form of a Hoglin. When a Hoglin enters the Overworld or the End, it trembles for 15 seconds (300 game ticks) before transforming into a Zoglin. Unlike zombified Piglins, Zoglins do not naturally spawn in the Nether, and Hoglins actively avoid Nether portals, making Zoglins difficult to encounter in the wild. Players can create one by leading a Hoglin into a pre-built portal and then activating it.\nZoglins attack all mobs except other Zoglins, Creepers, and Ghasts. They are even hostile to armor stands, although they cannot destroy or push them.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Breeze",
    "description": "A hostile mob that only spawns from a trial spawner found in trial chambers. Breeze resembles Blaze and is the first Nether-themed magical mob to appear in the Overworld. It launches wind charges for ranged attacks at players or iron golems within 16 blocks. It also compresses its body like a spring before leaping up to 15 blocks horizontally and 5 blocks vertically to perform melee attacks.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "The Breeching",
    "description": "A mob spawned near an active Breeching Heart at night. It is immune to all damage unless the heart block is destroyed. Despite being invincible, its attack power is relatively low. Hitting it causes resin to generate on nearby pale wood blocks.\nWhen the Breeching Heart is destroyed, the mob disintegrates with a unique sound and animation, and the player earns the Monster Hunter advancement.\nBreechings move in packs within a 32-block radius and charge players who are not looking at them. Wearing a carved pumpkin nullifies this behavior.\nThey despawn during the daytime unless named with a name tag. Breechings cannot enter the Nether or End and are immune to knockback, spinning, slime, and decay. They only attack players, ignoring all other mobs even if attacked.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Hostile"]


    "item_name": "Spider",
    "description": "Spiders spawn at light level 0 in areas with 3×3×1.5 blocks of open opaque space, or from spawners in dungeons. Classified as a 'bug' type mob, they take additional damage from weapons with the Bane of Arthropods enchantment.\nThey can crawl through 2×1 spaces. When attacking, they leap at their target. If attacked from a distance, they track the source and pursue persistently unless interrupted.\nThey drop string when killed. They become hostile at light levels below 11.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral"]


    "item_name": "Cave Spider",
    "description": "Cave Spiders only spawn from spawners in abandoned mineshafts. They behave like regular spiders but are smaller. Their attacks inflict poison (1 damage every 1.25s) on Normal or Hard difficulty.\nTo counter them, use milk or honey bottles. Cave Spiders often appear in tight spaces filled with webs, making them more dangerous. Burning or removing webs helps during combat.\nThey become hostile at light levels below 11.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral"]


    "item_name": "Wolf",
    "description": "Wolves spawn in various forest and taiga biomes, including snowy variants, sparse jungles, wooded badlands, and wooded hills. 10% spawn as pups. Their fur color and spawn rate vary by biome.\nWolves naturally attack many mobs and display aggression with red eyes and growling. They retaliate if the player attacks, with nearby wolves joining in. They also chase foxes, sheep, rabbits, baby turtles, and skeleton types.\nWolves fear llamas. If hit by a llama’s spit, they may either flee or retaliate based on their strength.\nPlayers can tame wolves with bones. Tamed wolves wear red collars, follow the player, and help attack enemies. They can also breed and regenerate health by eating meat. Tamed wolves teleport if too far from their owner.\nTheir tail height indicates remaining health. They whimper when their HP is below 3. They do not suffer status effects from food. Players can command them to sit or stand.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral"]


    "item_name": "Zombified Piglin",
    "description": "An undead mob that spawns in the Nether at light levels of 11 or lower, excluding Nether wart blocks. They are common in the Nether Wastes and rare in the Crimson Forest, but also spawn frequently in Nether Fortresses.\nThey are passive until attacked. Unlike Piglins, they are indifferent to gold. They can pick up items, and up to 55% may equip better weapons or even shields. Despite their undead appearance, they are among the calmer Nether mobs.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral"]


    "item_name": "Enderman",
    "description": "Endermen spawn in all dimensions under different conditions but always require a 3-block tall solid space. In the Overworld, they spawn at light level 0. In the Nether, they appear in the Nether Wastes and Soul Sand Valley under light level 7, and exclusively in the Warped Forest. In the End, they spawn frequently.\nThey are neutral until provoked by a player staring directly at their head from up to 64 blocks away. They avoid water and despawn or become neutral when wet.\nThey drop Ender Pearls when killed.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral"]


    "item_name": "Iron Golem",
    "description": "Naturally spawns in villages and may also appear in Pillager Outposts. Players can build them by placing 4 iron blocks in a T-shape and a carved pumpkin or jack-o’-lantern on top.\nPlayer-built golems remain passive even if hit by their creator. Golems attack most hostile mobs except Creepers and Ghasts. They can initiate attacks on neutral mobs such as Blazes, Endermen, Piglins, and Zombified Piglins.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral"]


    "item_name": "Llama",
    "description": "Llamas spawn in groups of 4 to 6 in savanna plateaus and mountainous biomes during the day. They come in brown, cream, gray, and white. If attacked, they spit once for 1 damage as retaliation. Tamed llamas also retaliate against players.\nThey attack wolves and fear them in return. Llamas have a hidden strength value (1–5), affecting their chest inventory size: 3 to 15 slots.\nTo tame a llama, ride it repeatedly until hearts appear. Their 'temper' increases after each failed attempt. Feed wheat or hay to heal or increase temper. Breeding requires two tamed llamas at full health fed with hay bales.",
    "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Panda",
  "description": "Pandas spawn rarely in jungle biomes on grass blocks with at least 2 meters of vertical space and light level 9 or higher, usually in groups of 1–2. They spawn more frequently in bamboo jungles. 5% of pandas are baby pandas when spawned. Normal pandas are the most common; brown pandas are the rarest.  
All pandas except aggressive ones only retaliate once when attacked by players or mobs, similar to llamas.  
When idle, they perform various behaviors depending on their personality, such as lying down, rolling, or sitting on their butt. When they see items like cake or bamboo, they sit down and eat using both front paws. Baby pandas occasionally sneeze, causing nearby adult pandas to jump in surprise. There’s a 0.1% chance for a sneezing baby panda to drop a slimeball.  
If a player holds bamboo, pandas will follow. Feeding grown pandas bamboo can make them breed, but only if there are at least 8 bamboo blocks within a 5-meter radius of the two pandas. Without this condition, they will shake their heads and not breed. Also, if the pandas are too close (overlapping), they will become hostile toward the player when breeding is attempted.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Bee",
  "description": "Bees use beehives or bee nests as homes, each housing up to three bees.  
When oak or birch saplings grow and there are flowers within 2 meters, there is a 2% chance for a bee nest with 1–3 bees to generate on the tree.  
Bees are attracted to all flowers except mangrove propagules and wither roses, including flowering azaleas and flowering azalea leaves. During the day, they collect nectar from flowers and return to their nest. Their activity radius is up to 22 meters from their nest. At night or during rain, they return home and don’t come out until it's sunny again. Homeless bees search for available nests.  
After staying on a flower for about 30 seconds, they gather nectar and return to the nearest nest. After 5 cycles, the nest becomes full and can be harvested: bottles yield honey bottles and shears yield honeycombs.  
Bees with pollen on their bodies appear to have white particles on their rear and drop white particles below. These particles fertilize crops like wheat, potatoes, carrots, beets, pumpkin/melon stems, and berry bushes, accelerating growth as if using bone meal. This effect can apply up to 10 times per nectar collection, with short delays between each.  
If a player holds an item that attracts bees, they will follow. Feeding such items to two grown bees allows breeding. Feeding them to baby bees speeds up growth.  
If a bee nest is harvested for items, bees inside and nearby become aggressive and attack the player. Placing a campfire below the nest prevents this.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Goat",
  "description": "Goats spawn in groups of 2–3 on opaque blocks in snowy slopes, jagged peaks, and frozen peaks biomes when light level is 7 or higher. There is a 5% chance for baby goats to spawn. There’s a 2% chance for a 'screaming goat' variant, which looks identical but makes loud noises and charges more often.  
Goats can perform high jumps up to 10 meters vertically and 5 meters forward. They avoid powdered snow and use high jumps to bypass obstacles. This jump has a cooldown of 30–60 seconds. Goats can’t jump while on honey blocks.  
Holding wheat attracts goats within 10 meters. Feeding two adult goats wheat causes breeding.  
Right-clicking a goat with a bucket gives milk, which can be done repeatedly with empty buckets.  
Goats don’t retaliate when attacked and instead flee like passive mobs. However, every 30–300 seconds (5–15 for screaming goats), they may charge at a stationary player or mob within 4–16 meters. They stop, lower their head, stomp, then charge. Targets can dodge while the goat lowers its head. If hit, targets are knocked back up to 9 meters.  
If a goat hits wood, stone, packed ice, iron, copper, or emerald ores, it drops a goat horn. Each horn lost is visually removed from its head, and goats can drop up to two horns.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Polar Bear",
  "description": "Polar bears spawn in groups of 1–2 on grass or ice blocks in snowy plains, ice spikes, frozen ocean, and deep frozen ocean biomes with light level 7 or higher. If two spawn, one is a cub. In Bedrock Edition, they can also spawn in frozen rivers, snowy slopes, jagged peaks, frozen peaks, and Legacy Frozen Ocean.  
Adult polar bears become hostile if a player approaches their cub.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral", "Not Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Dolphin",
  "description": "Dolphins spawn in groups of 3–5 in all ocean biomes except frozen and cold ocean at Y=50–64. There is a 10% chance for a baby dolphin.  
Dolphins are attracted to dropped item entities, which they chase and playfully toss. They also jump out of water and sometimes follow players or boats.  
Right-clicking a dolphin with a fish feeds it and causes green particles. It then leads the player to a nearby structure like a shipwreck, ocean ruin, or buried treasure, based on chest location.  
Swimming within 9 meters of a dolphin grants the Dolphin’s Grace effect for 5 seconds, increasing swim speed. In Bedrock Edition, there is no effect icon but the speed boost still applies. Combined with Depth Strider boots, movement may become difficult to control.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Neutral", "Not Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Villager",
  "description": "Villagers are passive mobs that live in communities across the Overworld. Those with jobs act like NPCs and trade various items using emeralds.  
Killing villagers yields no drops or experience. Attacking them lowers your reputation, causing higher trade prices or making iron golems hostile.  
When a raid starts, they flee to their homes regardless of the schedule. They move faster, may wander, and emit sweat particles. If the raid is repelled, villagers celebrate with fireworks and the player gains the 'Hero of the Village' effect for 40 minutes (two Minecraft days), granting discounts on trades.  
Players cannot breed villagers directly, but villagers can breed on their own if there are more beds than current population and at least two adult villagers are willing.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive"]


  "item_name": "Horse",
  "description": "Horses spawn in groups of 2–6 in plains and savanna biomes. There are 35 coat patterns (7 colors × 5 markings). Horses in the same group share the same color but can have different markings. Each horse has a 20% chance to be a foal. They can also appear in village stables.  
Horses can be tamed and used as mounts. They move faster than players and can step up 1-block heights without jumping. However, they can’t fit through 1-block-wide gaps, mine slowly, and may suffocate under low ceilings.  
Taming requires mounting the horse by hand. Each horse has a 'temper' stat (0–100). When a player tries to tame it, a number from 0–99 is rolled. If lower than the temper, taming succeeds. Failing dismounts the player and increases the temper by 5. Certain foods can also raise temper.  
Tamed horses don’t follow the player and roam freely. They must be tied or fenced.  
Once tamed, players can equip or remove horse armor and saddles via inventory. A saddle is required to control the horse.  
Unlike most passive mobs, horses gradually regenerate health. Feeding them heals immediately and speeds up foal growth (normally takes 20 minutes).  
Golden carrots and golden apples attract and breed tamed horses.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Allay",
  "description": "Allays spawn in groups of 1–3 in cages at pillager outposts or cells in woodland mansions. Cages containing Allays have closed roofs.  
They glow and fly aimlessly. Interacting with them while holding an item causes them to 'like' the player and fetch the same item within 60 meters. Very useful for gathering hard-to-see drops like eggs or wool.  
When passing through a Nether portal, all Allays liking a nearby player follow through.  
Like foxes or zombies, they can use Totems of Undying.  
Allays dance near a jukebox when music plays. Feeding one an amethyst shard during this makes it duplicate. Only one Allay is needed. Duplicated Allays must wait 5 minutes before duplicating again.  
When a note block plays nearby, Allays will deliver items to it instead of the player. Their collection radius is 32 blocks.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Pig",
  "description": "Pigs follow players holding potatoes, carrots, or beetroots. Feeding two adult pigs any of these causes breeding. Piglets mature in 20 minutes, but feeding reduces growth time by 10%.  
They can be ridden without taming using a saddle but can only be controlled with a carrot on a stick. Unlike horses, players don’t use movement keys but steer with the mouse. Pigs climb 1-block heights like stairs but can’t jump manually. Right-clicking with the carrot on a stick while riding boosts speed for 40 seconds at the cost of durability.  
In normal or hard difficulty, pigs struck by lightning or within 3–4 meters of a strike transform into zombified piglins.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Sheep",
  "description": "Sheep come in 16 colors. Cold biomes usually have black sheep; warm biomes have brown sheep. Pink sheep are the rarest. Players can dye wool using dyes.  
Shearing a sheep with shears yields 1–3 wool matching its color. Dispensers with shears also work.  
Sheared sheep are bare and don’t drop wool if killed. Their wool color can still be seen faintly.  
Adult sheep have a 1/1000 chance per tick to eat grass; lambs have 1/50. Grass blocks turn to dirt, and wool regrows after eating. Dyed sheep regrow their colored wool.  
Sheep follow players within 6 blocks holding wheat. Feeding two adults wheat causes breeding. In Java Edition, offspring color depends on the dye combination of parents (e.g., red + yellow = orange). In Bedrock Edition, lambs inherit one parent’s color.  
Wild wolves attack sheep. Tamed wolves don’t unless the player initiates.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Cow",
  "description": "Cows spawn on grass blocks with light level 7 or higher and at least 2 meters of vertical space in most Overworld biomes.  
They can also be found in village pastures or butcher shops. Using shears on a Mooshroom transforms it into a cow and drops mushrooms.  
Cows have a 5% chance to spawn as calves.  
Right-clicking a cow with a bucket collects milk, which can be done infinitely with an empty bucket.  
Cows follow players holding wheat. Feeding wheat to two adult cows causes breeding.  
Mooshrooms are a cow variant. They can also be attracted and bred using wheat. They drop the same items and can be milked like cows. However, using a bowl instead of a bucket yields mushroom stew infinitely. Though stew can't stack, it serves as an unlimited free food source.  
Using shears on an adult Mooshroom drops mushrooms and turns it into a regular cow. Cows cannot be turned back into Mooshrooms.  
Feeding a brown Mooshroom a flower and then using a bowl yields suspicious stew with the flower's effect (once per flower).",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Chicken",
  "description": "Chickens follow players holding seeds within 6 meters. Feeding seeds to two adult chickens causes breeding. Unlike real chickens or Minecraft turtles, baby chickens are born directly without an egg-laying process.  
Chickens lay eggs every 5–10 minutes (1–2 per Minecraft day). Egg color varies by breed: cold chickens lay blue eggs, temperate ones lay standard eggs, and tropical ones lay brown eggs.  
Chickens flap their wings while falling, giving them slow fall and immunity to fall damage.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Ocelot",
  "description": "Ocelots spawn in groups of 1–2 on grass or leaf blocks above sea level in jungle biomes (not in bamboo jungles or jungle edges).  
They usually spawn as adults but sometimes as cubs. When an adult spawns, there's a 1/7 chance (about 14.3%) it spawns with two cubs. This applies to natural spawns, spawn eggs, and spawners.  
Ocelots hunt chickens and baby turtles. They crouch and sneak like real cats, then suddenly pounce. They can attack even through fences or gates if close enough.  
Creepers and phantoms avoid ocelots, staying at least 6m and 16m away, respectively. Ocelots do not chase them.  
Ocelots avoid players by staying at least 6 meters away. However, if a player approaches slowly with raw cod or salmon within 10m, the ocelot may slowly approach. Sudden movements scare it away. If fed while close, there's a 1/3 chance it will trust the player and stop fleeing.  
Feeding trusted ocelots fish allows breeding.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Cat",
  "description": "Cats can spawn every 1,200 ticks (1 minute) in villages with at least 5 claimed beds.  
During a full moon, a black cat always spawns.  
A black cat also spawns in swamp huts and does not despawn.  
There are 11 cat skins including Tabby, Siamese, Calico, Tuxedo, Odd-Eyed White, Jelly, etc.  
Creepers and phantoms avoid cats by 6m and 16m, respectively. Cats hiss when they approach but do not chase.  
Untamed cats avoid players within 7m, attempting to stay at least 16m away.  
Cats can be tamed like ocelots by slowly approaching with raw cod or salmon. Tamed cats wear a red collar, which can be dyed.  
Feeding raw cod or salmon to two adult tamed cats breeds them. When ready, cats purr.  
Feeding baby cats fish speeds up growth. Fish can also heal 2 HP per feed.  
Tamed cats may sit or lie on lit furnaces, chests, or beds. Cats sitting on chests prevent opening them.  
When the player sleeps, tamed cats lie beside them. Upon waking, there’s a 70% chance the cat gives a gift: rabbit’s foot, phantom membrane, feather, rabbit hide, string, raw chicken, or rotten flesh.  
If the player is more than 12m away, the cat teleports. They won’t follow if sitting, riding in a boat/minecart, or stuck on a container.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Rabbit",
  "description": "Rabbits spawn in deserts, snowy plains, snowy taiga, forests, snowy slopes, flower forests, taiga, and meadows.  
In Bedrock Edition, they also spawn in frozen oceans, rivers, and snowy beaches. In Java Edition, also in giant tree and spruce taigas.  
They spawn as 1 adult with 1–2 babies on grass, snow, or sand blocks.  
Rabbits flee from various mobs and players. They flee players within 8m, most hostile mobs (except slime, magma cube, ghast) within 4m, and wolves within 10m.  
Wolves, foxes, and cats hunt rabbits.  
However, they follow players holding carrots, golden carrots, or dandelions within 8m. Feeding these to two adult rabbits causes breeding.  
Rabbits eat planted carrots, reducing growth stage until fully consumed.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Turtle",
  "description": "Turtles spawn on all beaches except stone and snowy beaches. They sometimes move between water and land.  
Turtles follow players holding seagrass within 10 blocks. Feeding it to two adult turtles causes breeding. One turtle becomes pregnant, returning to its home beach to lay eggs in sand with air above.  
Eggs must hatch to produce baby turtles.  
Feeding baby turtles seagrass speeds up growth by 10% per use.  
Zombies, husks, drowned, skeletons, wither skeletons, strays, cats, ocelots, wolves, and foxes attack baby turtles, which cannot defend themselves. Players should protect them with fences and torches.  
When fully grown, baby turtles drop scutes.  
Turtles have homing instincts, remembering their spawn point and returning to it to lay eggs. Moving an egg and hatching it in another location changes the turtle’s home beach.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Fox",
  "description": "Foxes spawn in groups of 2–4 in taiga, snowy taiga, taiga forests, and grove biomes. 5% spawn as kits.  
In snowy biomes (excluding groves), they have white fur.  
Foxes hunt chickens, rabbits, salmon, cod, tropical fish, and baby turtles (on land). They may leap 2–5 blocks into the air to pounce, clearing fences or walls.  
They flee from wolves and polar bears (including cubs), repeatedly running when in detection range.  
Foxes also flee players unless approached while sneaking.  
During calm daylight, they seek light level ≤14 to sleep. They won’t sleep if a nearby armor stand is within 12 blocks.  
Foxes curl up when sleeping. They wake if approached, exposed to light level ≥15, pushed, or displaced.  
They may sit on the ground if no suitable sleeping spot is found.  
Feeding two adult foxes sweet or glow berries causes breeding. The baby’s fur color is 50/50 from the parents.  
Tamed fox kits trust the player, don’t flee, and sleep nearby. They will defend the player against mobs (except polar bears and wolves in Java Edition).  
Trusted foxes can drop mob-specific items like spider eyes, even without direct player action.  
However, foxes can’t be commanded like cats or wolves and don’t follow or sit.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Strider",
  "description": "Striders spawn in groups of 2–4 over lava in the Nether, if there's at least 2 blocks of vertical space.  
1/30 of them spawn saddled with a zombified piglin holding a warped fungus on a stick.  
Striders walk on lava without sinking and are immune to fire damage.  
They can be saddled and ridden like pigs. Warped fungus on a stick is used for control and boosting.  
This allows traversal across lava oceans.  
Striders follow players holding warped fungus or its fishing rod variant.  
Feeding these to two adult striders causes breeding.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Axolotl",
  "description": "Axolotls spawn in water inside lush caves if there’s clay below and less than 5 blocks of space.  
They come in Leucistic (pink), Blue, Cyan, Gold, and Wild (brown) variants.  
All except Blue spawn with ~24.98% chance each. Blue axolotls only appear via breeding, with a 1/1200 chance.  
Holding a bucket of tropical fish causes axolotls to follow. Feeding this to two adults causes breeding.  
Babies have a 1/1200 chance to be blue; otherwise they inherit a parent’s color.  
Breeding a blue axolotl with others boosts the blue chance by 600×.  
Axolotls attack aquatic mobs like fish, squids, glow squids, drowned, tadpoles, guardians, and elder guardians.  
They prioritize hostile mobs.  
After killing 1–2 fish or squids, they rest for 2 minutes before hunting again.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Frog",
  "description": "Frogs spawn in groups of 2–5 on grass, mud, moss, mangrove roots, or muddy mangrove roots in swamp and mangrove swamp biomes.  
Tadpoles grow into frogs, which come in three variants based on biome: Temperate (orange), Cold (green), Warm (white).  
Frogs follow players holding slimeballs. Feeding slimeballs to two adults causes breeding.  
One lays eggs in water with an air block above.  
Frogs eat small slimes and magma cubes using a tongue-lashing motion, instantly removing the target.  
If a frog eats a magma cube, it drops a frog light, the color depending on frog type: ochre (orange), verdant (green), or pearlescent (white).",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Camel",
  "description": "Camels rarely spawn in deserts, but one always spawns in desert villages. Unlike horses, camels don’t need taming—just equip a saddle to ride.  
Compared to horses, camels have higher health and are slower, but can dash to leap over small ravines. Dashing has a cooldown. Standing 3m tall, they can step over fences and 1.5m-high blocks. Zombies and similar mobs can't hit the rider due to height.  
Two players can ride a camel: the front controls it, the back can engage in combat.  
Breeding requires cactus, and cactus also speeds up baby growth. However, camels are not immune to damage from planted cacti.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Sniffer",
  "description": "A six-legged, extinct ancient creature. Sniffer eggs can be obtained with a 6.7% chance from brushing suspicious sand found in warm/lukewarm ocean ruins.  
The name comes from 'sniff', and sniffers have a unique animation of flaring their yellow nose. They may be mistaken as turtles due to their shape, but their real eyes are on the red head, and their ears droop like large ungulates.  
Despite their size, they have less health than spiders and are peaceful.  
Snifflets take 40 minutes to grow, twice as long as most mobs.  
Adult sniffers sniff the ground and dig up torchflower seeds or pitcher pods from specific blocks: dirt, grass, podzol, coarse dirt, rooted dirt, moss, mud, or muddy mangrove roots. These can be planted into torchflowers and pitcher plants.  
Feeding two sniffers a torchflower seed causes breeding. Feeding damaged sniffers restores 2 HP.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Armadillo",
  "description": "Armadillos spawn in savannas. They curl up when sensing threats like hostile mobs (except spiders and cave spiders), running players, or mounted players.  
While curled up, incoming damage is halved (damage -1 then ÷2). They unroll after 3 seconds of safety.  
They can be lured and bred using spider eyes.  
Armadillos periodically drop scutes. These can be used to craft wolf armor.  
Using a brush on an armadillo yields scutes directly, but the brush breaks after 5 uses.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Parrot",
  "description": "Parrots rarely spawn in groups of 1–2 above Y=70 in jungles.  
They come in 5 skins: red (Scarlet Macaw), green (Hans Macaw), blue (Hyacinth Macaw), cyan (Blue-and-yellow Macaw), and gray (Cockatiel).  
They fly slowly and usually land quickly. Wild parrots tend to fly near other mobs.  
Parrots can be tamed with any seeds.  
Unlike most tameable mobs, they cannot breed.  
Tamed parrots will teleport to the player if not sitting. They sit on shoulders (max one per shoulder).  
They dismount when the player falls from 1+ block, takes damage, or enters water.  
Parrots mimic the sounds of nearby neutral and hostile mobs within 20 blocks, including creeper fuse sounds, making them useful for warnings.  
However, poor AI causes them to often die by landing in hazards.  
Parrots instantly die if fed cookies.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Squid",
  "description": "Squids spawn in groups of 2–4 at Y=50–64 in rivers, oceans, and beaches, with a 5% chance to spawn as babies.  
They do not spawn inside ocean monuments.  
Squids breathe underwater but take suffocation damage after 15 seconds (300 game ticks) out of water.  
Their AI sometimes leads them onto shores, causing accidental deaths.  
Glow squids are a variant that spawn at light level 0 and emit a glowing cyan effect.  
They drop glow ink sacs, which can be used to brighten dyed text on signs—especially helpful for colors like yellow.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Snow Golem",
  "description": "Crafted by placing 2 snow blocks and a carved pumpkin or jack o’lantern vertically.  
They can also be created using dispensers or pistons to place the pumpkin.  
They resemble moving snowmen more than golems.  
Snow golems throw snowballs at hostile mobs within 10 meters, including creepers and ghasts (which iron golems and wolves ignore). They also attack neutral mobs like spiders, cave spiders, endermen, and zombified piglins.  
Endermen dodge snowballs, making the attacks ineffective.  
Snow golems recognize enemies even through blocks.  
Most hostile mobs ignore snow golems unless provoked by snowballs.  
Snowballs deal 0 damage, but multiple golems can continuously push mobs away.  
Snow golems have low health and are easily killed but can serve as distractions.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Bat",
  "description": "Bats spawn in darkness (light level ≤3) below Y=63, where there's at least two air blocks vertically.  
They hang upside down from solid block undersides and fly away if a player approaches.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Wandering Trader",
  "description": "Wandering Traders behave like villagers: they flee hostile mobs and trade using emeralds.  
They can spawn 24,000 ticks (20 minutes) after world creation. Spawn attempts occur within 48 blocks of the player.  
Spawn success chances increase with each failed attempt: 2.5%, then 5%, then 7.5%. On average, a trader appears after 10.4 in-game days (~3.5 hours).  
They spawn with two leashed trader llamas and stay for 2–3 in-game days (40–60 minutes).  
Only one can exist per loaded chunk.  
They usually spawn on land, but may appear on water or underground if necessary.  
At night or during rain, they drink invisibility potions. They reappear by drinking milk at dawn or when it stops raining.  
They leave potion particles and stay near llamas, making them easy to spot.  
Trader llamas spit at anyone who attacks their owner.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable"]


  "item_name": "Cod",
  "description": "Cod spawn in groups of 3–6 at Y=50–64 in all ocean biomes except warm oceans.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable", "Fish"]


  "item_name": "Salmon",
  "description": "Salmon spawn in groups of 1–5 at Y=50–63 in frozen oceans, deep frozen oceans, cold oceans, deep cold oceans, rivers, and frozen rivers.  
They can swim up waterfalls 4–5 blocks high.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable", "Fish"]


  "item_name": "Tropical Fish",
  "description": "Tropical fish spawn in groups of 8 underwater in lukewarm oceans, deep lukewarm oceans, warm oceans, deep warm oceans, lush caves, and mangrove swamp biomes.  
In ocean biomes, they spawn at Y=50–63; in lush caves, they spawn at any height.",
  "tags": ["Monster", "Passive", "Not Breedable", "Fish"]


  "item_name": "Ruined Portal",
  "description": "Ruined portals are damaged Nether portal structures and are the only structures that generate across multiple dimensions.  
In Java Edition, they generate in all Overworld and Nether biomes except Deep Dark; in Bedrock Edition, they can also spawn in the Deep Dark.  
They can appear above ground, underground, underwater, or in the Nether.  
The portal frame is partially broken obsidian, often built on netherrack and decorated with stone brick-type blocks.  
There is a high chance of gold blocks and loot chests nearby. Some obsidian blocks may be replaced with crying obsidian. The surrounding terrain is often made of netherrack instead of regular grass or stone.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Multidimensional"]


  "item_name": "Village",
  "description": "Villages are composed of paths radiating from a central meeting point, where a bell is always found.  
Various side structures generate randomly along these paths, such as plazas, wells, and fountains.  
Villages have farms where wheat, carrots, potatoes, and beets grow. Villagers exchange bread and crops harvested from these farms.  
Some farms grow watermelons or pumpkins, depending on the village type.  
Each village has unique architecture and uses blocks suited to its biome.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Surface"]


  "item_name": "Desert Pyramid",
  "description": "Desert pyramids spawn rarely in desert biomes and are made mostly of sandstone in a square-based pyramid shape.  
They feature terracotta decorations and hidden loot with traps inside.  
The base is a 21×21 square and the pyramid is 9 blocks high. It has a main entrance and two side towers.  
Six entrances exist in total: the front, sides, and top. Four chiseled sandstone pillars stand in the middle of the first floor, decorated with orange and blue terracotta.  
Below is a 3×3×11 pit with chests in the four cardinal directions.  
In the pit, a stone pressure plate beneath the center blue terracotta triggers 9 TNT blocks below if stepped on. This can destroy the loot and kill the player.  
Sometimes mobs step on the plate or lava overlaps during generation, causing accidental explosions.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Surface"]


  "item_name": "Jungle Temple",
  "description": "Jungle temples spawn rarely in jungle biomes and are made mostly of cobblestone and mossy cobblestone.  
Also called Jungle Pyramids, they have traps, loot, and puzzles underground.  
They consist of two floors above ground and one basement. The first floor is 15×12 and has stairs leading to the second floor and basement.  
On either side of the basement, there are L-shaped corridors with tripwire traps connected to dispensers shooting arrows.  
Players can carefully avoid traps or cut tripwires.  
At the end of one corridor is a chest.  
The opposite side has a 3-lever puzzle connected to a hidden room with another chest.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Surface"]


  "item_name": "Swamp Hut",
  "description": "Swamp huts generate in swamp biomes and are small wooden structures made mostly of spruce planks.  
Also called witch huts, they sometimes generate as stilted houses over shallow water.  
If no solid blocks are below, oak logs extend down to the ground.  
Inside are a crafting table and empty cauldron (which may contain potions in Bedrock).  
Windows are fenced (1-block) at the front and back, and 2-block open windows on the sides.  
A flower pot with red mushrooms sits opposite the door.  
A witch and a black cat always spawn inside.  
Within a 7×9×7 area around the hut, no hostile mobs except the witch spawn. Any cat generated in this area (without commands) will be black.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Surface"]


  "item_name": "Igloo",
  "description": "Inside an igloo are a red bed, crafting table, furnace, and redstone torch.  
50% of igloos contain a hidden basement revealed by removing the carpet, uncovering a trapdoor.  
In the lab below are stone brick walls, some of which are infested with silverfish.  
There is a prisoner cell with a villager and a zombie villager, a brewing stand with a splash potion of Weakness, and a chest with a golden apple.  
Throw the potion at the zombie villager and feed it the apple to cure it.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Surface"]


  "item_name": "Woodland Mansion",
  "description": "Woodland mansions rarely generate in Dark Forest and Sparse Jungle biomes.  
Players can obtain explorer maps from cartographer villagers to locate them.  
Allays can be found imprisoned in cells inside.  
Some rooms contain evokers and vindicators.  
The mansion is large and dark, allowing other mobs like zombies, creepers, skeletons, and spiders to spawn continuously.  
Although filled with strong enemies, it contains valuable loot like totems of undying and many emeralds.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Surface"]


  "item_name": "Pillager Outpost",
  "description": "Outposts spawn in plains, meadows, deserts, savannas, taigas, tundras, snowy slopes, jagged peaks, frozen peaks, and stony peaks.  
Rarely, they can appear on ocean surfaces or on woodland mansion roofs (!).  
They are similar to villages but rarer.  
Pillagers continuously spawn within the outpost. No spawner block exists; they spawn freely.  
A raid captain may spawn with a low chance.  
In Java, only pillagers and passive mobs spawn within the outpost.  
They spawn on opaque blocks with sky light ≤11 and block light ≤8, or on grass/sand regardless of light.  
To prevent spawning, players can use light sources or spawn-proof blocks like slabs, carpets, or glass.  
In Bedrock Edition, pillager spawns are less reliable, so getting the Bad Omen effect takes more effort.  
The top floor of the watchtower contains a loot chest and a banner-wearing raid captain.  
Up to 4 auxiliary structures can generate diagonally from the tower.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Surface"]


  "item_name": "Mineshaft",
  "description": "Mineshafts generate underground in all Overworld biomes, and sometimes underwater.  
They consist of maze-like tunnels supported by wooden beams, filled with rails and cobwebs.  
If they intersect caves or ravines, plank bridges are generated.  
Ores are often exposed along the tunnels.  
Minecarts with chests can spawn.  
A 10×10 arched room marks the start of a mineshaft and connects to many tunnels.  
Monster spawners for cave spiders also appear, surrounded by dense webs.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Underground"]


  "item_name": "Stronghold",
  "description": "Strongholds are naturally generated underground structures. They usually appear in land biomes but can also generate underwater if necessary.  
In Java Edition, 128 strongholds generate in concentric rings centered on (x=0, z=0). In Bedrock Edition, they generate randomly throughout the world.  
Throwing an Eye of Ender leads toward the spiral staircase of a stronghold and may break or become an item mid-air. If a stronghold is nearby, the eye drops underground. Digging at that spot reveals the stronghold, though the eye item may be hard to find.  
Strongholds include an End portal room, libraries, large rooms (empty, torch-lit, with columns or fountains), hallways with altars, prisons, spiral stairs, etc., in varied combinations and sizes.  
Libraries, storerooms, and altar halls contain loot chests.  
Inactive End portals are frames with empty slots. Inserting Eyes of Ender into all frame blocks activates the portal.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Underground", "End Entrance"]


  "item_name": "Buried Treasure",
  "description": "Buried treasure appears underground on beaches or seafloors, with a single chest.  
It is usually shallow but may be found below Y=30 or underwater.  
Typically buried in sand or gravel, but sometimes under stone blocks on underwater hills.  
Use treasure maps from shipwrecks or ocean ruins to locate them—marked with a bold red X.  
If multiple shipwrecks/ruins are nearby, the same map may appear in all.  
The Heart of the Sea, required to craft conduits for underwater buffs, only appears in these treasure chests.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Underground"]


  "item_name": "Ancient City",
  "description": "Ancient Cities spawn beneath mountains in Deep Dark biomes.  
They are massive walled ruins built with deepslate blocks, including towers, camps, freezers, and more.  
Gray wool carpets cover the halls, and sculk blocks are spread throughout.  
They’re hard to find without commands or external tools, though large mountains indicate possible city locations.  
The center features a giant Warden head structure made of reinforced deepslate with soul fire beneath.  
Below it is a 'sample circuit' altar with sculk sensors and redstone devices—surprisingly complex for a showcase.  
To loot safely, surround all shriekers with wool to prevent vibrations from reaching them.  
If the Warden spawns, run far away quickly. It takes time to fully emerge and only detects vibrations afterward, allowing a chance for despawning if the player stays distant.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Underground"]


  "item_name": "Trail Ruins",
  "description": "Trail Ruins are ancient underground ruins partially exposed on the surface in jungles, old birch forests, and taiga biomes.  
They’re built with terracotta, glazed terracotta, bricks, and mud bricks.  
Surface rubble includes gravel and terracotta; suspicious gravel/sand within the structure contains loot.  
Fully buried ruins may be filled with dirt and regular gravel.  
Unlike other structures, loot chests do not spawn—loot is obtained by brushing suspicious blocks.  
These ruins offer the most pottery shards (6 types) and smithing templates (4 types).  
Though not large, clearing the filled dirt and gravel may require more than one diamond shovel. Bring plenty of brushes and shovels.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Underground"]


  "item_name": "Trial Chamber",
  "description": "Trial Chambers are large structures found in deepslate layers (Y -64 to 0), made mainly of tuff and copper blocks.  
They contain loot in chests, pots, and barrels.  
When a player enters with the Bad Omen status effect, a special event triggers.  
Bad Omen becomes Trial Omen, the player emits blue skull-shaped particles, and trial spawners transform into ominous trial spawners.  
Monsters become tougher, and loot is improved.  
The heavy core used to craft maces can be obtained from ominous vaults, which are unlocked with keys from ominous trial spawners.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Underground"]


  "item_name": "Ocean Monument",
  "description": "Ocean monuments are built from prismarine blocks and found in all deep ocean biomes.  
They have 4 floors and continually spawn guardians inside and around the structure.  
Three elder guardians spawn inside (top room and both side rooms of the bottom floor).  
Players within 50m receive Mining Fatigue III every minute for 5 minutes, which heavily reduces mining speed—even Efficiency V tools become nearly useless.  
Sponge and gold blocks are hidden inside.  
Sponges are unique to monuments and are often hidden in ceiling rooms.  
Gold blocks (8 total) are hidden in a small dark prismarine and sea lantern chamber at the monument’s core.  
Without breaking through walls, navigating the maze-like interior leads players naturally to the gold chamber.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Ocean"]


  "item_name": "Ocean Ruins",
  "description": "Usually generated underwater but may appear on beaches.  
May appear as standalone ruins or clusters resembling a village.  
1–4 drowned spawn as part of the ruins and do not despawn.  
Ruins are built with sandstone, stone bricks, cobblestone, prismarine, red bricks, glazed terracotta, and sea lanterns.  
Digging below often reveals a loot chest.  
Suspicious gravel and sand can also be found on the ruin floor.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Ocean"]


  "item_name": "Shipwreck",
  "description": "Shipwrecks spawn in all ocean biomes and sometimes on beaches or inland like washed-up ships.  
There are 20 different designs: upright, sideways, upside-down, half-broken, or without a mast.  
They may contain up to three chests:  
- Supply Chest: below the deck near the bow  
- Map Chest: aft near the supply chest  
- Treasure Chest: in the captain’s cabin (stern)  
Each chest has different loot tables, similar to strongholds.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Overworld", "Ocean"]


  "item_name": "Nether Fortress",
  "description": "Nether fortresses generate in all Nether biomes.  
Made of nether bricks, they consist of castle-like buildings and connecting bridges.  
Inside are corridors, stairwells, and loot chests.  
Two or more blaze spawners are located in upper areas.  
Nether wart farms appear near stairwells.  
The fortress continuously spawns five mob types:  
- Blaze (10/28), Wither Skeleton (8/28), Zombified Piglin (5/28), Magma Cube (3/28), Skeleton (2/28)  
Blaze and Wither Skeletons are exclusive to Nether Fortresses.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Nether"]


  "item_name": "Bastion Remnant",
  "description": "Bastion Remnants are fortress-like structures made of blackstone and basalt, generating in all Nether biomes except basalt deltas.  
They contain chests and gold blocks, guarded by piglins and brutes.  
Commonly referred to as 'bastions'.  
The Pigstep music disc and snout banner pattern only generate in bastions.  
Soul Speed-enchanted items and netherite upgrade templates are also exclusive to bastions.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Nether"]


{
  "item_name": "Nether Fossil",
  "description": "Found in Soul Sand Valleys, Nether Fossils are structures made of bone blocks.  
Compared to Overworld fossils, they are more fragmented and rib-shaped, and contain no ores.  
Unlike Overworld fossils which are hard to find, Nether Fossils are quite common in Soul Sand Valleys.  
There are 14 different fossil shapes.  
Future updates may allow players to obtain Dried Ghasts from them.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "Nether"]
}

{
  "item_name": "End City",
  "description": "End Cities generate in End Highlands and End Midlands biomes on outer islands, accessible through End Gateways after defeating the Ender Dragon.  
Alternatively, players can bridge 1000 blocks from the central island without using a portal, though it is difficult.  
Discovering one unlocks the 'The City at the End of the Game' advancement.  
Shulkers make exploring difficult by firing homing projectiles that inflict levitation, causing players to float and fall.  
However, the levitation can help skip jump sections and ascend faster.  
End Cities contain many jump-based structures, with shulkers even attacking during stair climbs.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "End"]
}

{
  "item_name": "End Ship",
  "description": "End Ships are rare, ship-shaped substructures generated near End Cities.  
Each End City tower has a 50% chance to generate a bridge in any direction, and a 12.5% chance for that bridge to connect to an End Ship.  
Ships face away from the city, as if departing. Sometimes bugs cause half of the ship to be missing.  
At the bow entrance is a brewing stand with two instant healing potions.  
Inside are two treasure chests and an item frame with Elytra.  
The ship's bow also has a dragon head mounted outside.  
Shulkers guard the loot chests and stern.  
Due to their external location, End Ships often extend beyond terrain.  
To descend safely, use Ender Pearls or glide with Elytra.  
Elytra and the dragon head are exclusive to End Ships.",
  "tags": ["Structure", "End"]


  "item_name": "Dungeon",
  "description": "Commonly called 'spawners', dungeons generate at any height in the Overworld, usually underground.  
They require solid blocks above and below, so rarely appear on the surface unless ceilings collapse in sandy or gravelly biomes.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "Overworld"]


  "item_name": "Obsidian Platform",
  "description": "A 5×5×1 obsidian platform generated whenever a player enters the End.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "End"]


  "item_name": "Obsidian Pillar",
  "description": "Ten obsidian pillars surround the central End island exit portal.  
Their bases extend below the island floor.  
Each pillar has bedrock on top, with an end crystal placed on it.  
Some are protected by iron bars, making long-range destruction difficult.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "End"]


  "item_name": "Exit Portal",
  "description": "A portal at (x=0, z=0) in the End used to return to the Overworld.  
Initially inactive.  
After defeating the Ender Dragon, it flies to the portal and dies.  
Then the portal activates, and a dragon egg appears on top (only for the first dragon).  
Placing end crystals on each corner re-summons the dragon and resets the portal.  
Even if the bedrock is broken using bugs or creative mode, the portal regenerates when the dragon is re-summoned.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "End"]


  "item_name": "End Gateway",
  "description": "A floating structure known as an 'End Gateway'.  
Each time the Ender Dragon is defeated, one spawns on the edge of the central island at Y=75, up to 20 total.  
Entering it teleports entities to the outer islands. A return gateway also spawns at the destination.  
Some may appear naturally in the outer islands.  
Returning through them leads to the obsidian platform on the central island.  
As they are only 1 block tall and blocked by bedrock above and below, you must crawl, glide, or throw an Ender Pearl to enter.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "End"]


  "item_name": "Desert Well",
  "description": "Found on the surface of desert biomes, made of sandstone and sandstone slabs.  
Its base extends 3 blocks underground.  
Water in a cross shape allows infinite collection.  
Suspicious sand lies beneath the water.  
It is different from wells generated as part of villages.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "Overworld", "Desert"]


  "item_name": "Fossil",
  "description": "Fossils generate underground in desert and swamp biomes at a 1/64 chance per chunk.  
Made of bone blocks and either coal ore or deepslate diamond ore.  
Two attempts are made per chunk:  
- One with coal ore between Y=0 and Y=320  
- One with deepslate diamond ore between Y=-63 and Y=-8  
There are four skull and four rib variants.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "Overworld", "Underground"]


  "item_name": "Amethyst Geode",
  "description": "A spherical geode structure generated in the Overworld between Y=30 and -64, with a 1⁄24 chance per chunk.  
Sometimes it spawns exposed in oceans or beaches, and rarely two geodes may be attached.  
95% of the time, it generates cracked open, exposing the inner layers.  
From outside to inside: smooth basalt, calcite, amethyst blocks, and finally budding amethyst.",
  "tags": ["Pseudo-Structure", "Overworld", "Underground"]


  "item_name": "Nether",
  "description": "A dimension made of fiery lava-filled caverns and fungal vegetation.  
It's hot, dry, has no day-night cycle, and is home to strange native pig-like creatures.  
Players access it via a 'Nether Portal', which is formed by building a rectangular frame of obsidian and igniting it.  
Frames range from 2×3 to 21×21 (excluding frame).  
Players can mine obsidian with a diamond pickaxe or create the frame with lava and water.  
Nether Portals can also be restored from ruined portals.  
Standing in the purple portal block slowly warps the screen and teleports players to the Nether.  
The portal deactivates when the blocks are broken, or water/lava is placed inside.  
Nether mobs include piglins, wither skeletons, magma cubes, ghasts, blazes, hoglins, piglin brutes, zombified piglins, and striders.  
All except piglins, hoglins, and brutes are fire-resistant.",
  "tags": ["Dimension", "Nether"]


  "item_name": "The End",
  "description": "A void-like dimension made of large and small floating islands.  
Like the Nether, it has no time or weather, giving a desolate, frozen-in-time feel.  
Enter through an End Portal found in a Stronghold after inserting Eyes of Ender.  
The End Portal cannot be built manually in Survival Mode.  
To reach the End, players must first go to the Nether to collect blaze powder and Ender pearls.  
At the center island (x=0, z=0) is an inactive exit portal, surrounded by 10 obsidian pillars—some over 40m tall.  
This area has the Ender Dragon and many endermen.  
About 1 km out, the outer islands form rings around the center, featuring large and small islands.  
Large islands are spaced ~100m apart and contain chorus plants and trees.  
End cities and ships occasionally spawn here.  
Endermen spawn throughout, and shulkers guard cities and ships.",
  "tags": ["Dimension", "End"]


  "item_name": "Planks",
  "description": "Planks are crafted by placing one log in the crafting grid.  
Used to craft slabs, stairs, fences, and more.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Place one log anywhere in the crafting grid."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Stairs",
  "description": "Craftable using wood or stone materials.",
  "tags": ["Building"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Place material blocks in positions 1,2,3,4,5,7 of the crafting grid."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe for wood", "Pickaxe for stone"]


  "item_name": "Slab",
  "description": "A block that is half the height of a normal block.",
  "tags": ["Building"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Place material blocks in positions 1,2,3 of the crafting grid."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe for wood", "Pickaxe for stone"]


  "item_name": "Fence",
  "description": "A structure that prevents mobs and animals from jumping over.",
  "tags": ["Building"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Place material blocks in positions 1,3,4,6 and wooden sticks in positions 2,5 of the crafting grid."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Wall",
  "description": "The stone equivalent of a fence.",
  "tags": ["Building"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Place material blocks in positions 1,2,3,4,5,6 of the crafting grid."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


  "item_name": "Oak Tree",
  "description": "Found in temperate and dry biomes.  
The most common and accessible wood block.  
Azalea trees are also a variant of oak.  
Regular oaks grow 4–6 blocks tall, and giant oaks have branches, making them harder to harvest in bulk.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Spruce Tree",
  "description": "Found in taiga and cold biomes.  
Placing 4 saplings in a square produces a giant spruce, ideal for large-scale wood farming.  
Giant spruce trees have no extra branch blocks, making them easy to chop.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Birch Tree",
  "description": "Found in temperate forests, birch forests, and old-growth birch forests.  
Some woodland mansions and pillager outposts use birch wood.  
Does not grow into a giant tree, making it easier to harvest.  
It has one of the brightest wood tones after stripped oak.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Jungle Tree",
  "description": "Found throughout tropical jungle biomes.  
Grows very tall, and placing 4 saplings in a square produces a massive tree, making it a good source of wood.  
However, it has low sapling drop rates and is harder to harvest due to obstructive branch logs and the rarity of jungle biomes, so it's less preferred than spruce for large-scale harvesting.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Acacia Tree",
  "description": "Found in dry savanna biomes.  
Its wood and planks have a vibrant orange hue.  
The tree often grows in a curved shape, making it inconvenient to harvest.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Dark Oak Tree",
  "description": "A dark-colored tree found in temperate dark forests.  
It is shorter for a giant tree and can only grow by placing 4 saplings in a square.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Mangrove Tree",
  "description": "Found in mangrove swamp biomes.  
Its red-wine-colored wood is distinctive.  
The trunk splits into four near the base, and it grows from propagules instead of saplings, making it harder to grow manually.  
It’s easier to just harvest naturally grown trees.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Cherry Tree",
  "description": "Found in cherry groves.  
Has 1–3 branches when grown, with reddish bark and pink interior.  
The leaves emit pink particles.  
Despite having multiple branches, it has a high sapling return rate and can yield a lot of logs as a giant tree.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Stripped Oak Tree",
  "description": "Found in pale gardens, a rare dark forest variant.  
Sometimes contains a Creeping Heart that spawns a Creeping at night.  
However, player-grown versions do not have this heart.  
It only grows when 4 saplings are placed in a square.  
Its bark and planks have a pale white and purple tone.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Bamboo Block",
  "description": "Crafted from bamboo.  
Unlike other wood types, it requires preprocessing.  
Can be turned into 2 bamboo planks, then into 4 sticks.  
Two bamboo slabs create bamboo mosaic.  
The block features a checkered pattern and can be crafted into stairs and slabs.  
Unlike regular logs, it cannot be smelted into charcoal or used as campfire fuel.  
However, bamboo planks can replace normal planks in recipes.  
A bamboo boat is called a raft and has the same function as a regular boat.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Crimson Stem",
  "description": "Found in the Crimson Forest biome in the Nether.  
Has red pulsating patterns on its surface.  
Neither it nor its derived blocks can burn or be smelted into charcoal.  
But tools and furniture made from it (e.g., crafting tables) can still be used as fuel.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Warped Stem",
  "description": "Found in the Warped Forest biome in the Nether.  
Has blue pulsating surface patterns.  
Like Crimson Stem, it and its derived blocks are flame-resistant and cannot be smelted, but their crafted derivatives (like crafting tables) can be used as fuel.",
  "tags": ["Wood", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["None"],
  "optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


  "item_name": "Stone",
  "description": "Gray-colored block that forms most of the Overworld above Y=0.  
Generated when lava contacts the top of water.  
Mining with a regular pickaxe drops cobblestone.  
To obtain stone, use a pickaxe with Silk Touch or smelt cobblestone in a furnace.  
Brewing awkward potions with stone results in a Potion of Decay.",
  "tags": ["Stone", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Smelt cobblestone in a furnace."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


  "item_name": "Cobblestone",
  "description": "Dropped when stone is broken.  
Also generated when flowing lava contacts water.  
Used in jungle temples and dungeons.  
Main ingredient for stone tools.  
Mossy Cobblestone is crafted by combining cobblestone with moss blocks or vines.  
Not usable for tool crafting or smelting.",
  "tags": ["Stone", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Break stone with a pickaxe. Mossy Cobblestone: combine cobblestone with moss block or vine."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


  "item_name": "Smooth Stone",
  "description": "Obtained by smelting stone in a furnace.  
Used to craft blast furnaces and smooth stone slabs for armor stands.",
  "tags": ["Stone", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Smelt stone in a furnace."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


  "item_name": "Stone Bricks",
  "description": "Craft 4 stone blocks to make 4 stone bricks, or use a stonecutter to make 1 from 1 stone.  
Cracked Stone Bricks: smelt stone bricks in a furnace.  
Chiseled Stone Bricks: combine two stone brick slabs or use a stonecutter. Used to craft Lodestones.  
Mossy Stone Bricks: combine stone bricks with moss blocks or vines.",
  "tags": ["Stone", "Building", "Material"],
  "crafting_recipe": ["Place 4 stone blocks in positions 1,2,4,5 of the crafting grid."],
  "optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Diorite",
"description": "Can be crafted with Cobblestone and Nether Quartz. Found underground in vein form. Can be traded with villagers for 20.",
"tags": ["Stone, Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Cobblestone in slot 24 of the crafting table, and Nether Quartz in slot 15. Place 4 Diorite in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 to get Polished Diorite."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Granite",
"description": "Can be crafted with Diorite and Nether Quartz. Found underground in vein form, and may also appear as part of giant copper veins. It might seem odd that white Diorite and white Quartz make Granite, but this reflects the real-world fact that granite contains more quartz than diorite.",
"tags": ["Stone, Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Diorite and Nether Quartz in the crafting table. Place 4 Granite in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 to get Polished Granite."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Andesite",
"description": "Can be crafted with Diorite and Cobblestone. Found underground in vein form.",
"tags": ["Stone, Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Diorite and Cobblestone in the crafting table. Place 4 Andesite in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 to get Polished Andesite."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Deepslate",
"description": "Deepslate starts appearing from y=8 and completely replaces stone from y=-1. Unlike most types of stone blocks, it can only be obtained through mining.
It has twice the hardness of stone, and while Deepslate itself cannot be crafted into anything, the Cobbled Deepslate obtained from mining can be used to craft various derivative blocks. Cobbled Deepslate itself can also be used as a substitute for Cobblestone. However, if mined with a tool enchanted with Silk Touch, it yields regular Deepslate instead of Cobbled Deepslate.
With many block variants and a stylish dark color, it's a useful material for building. Note that regular Deepslate has direction like logs: the top and bottom textures differ from the four side textures. To place it like naturally generated Deepslate, target the top or bottom face of a block when placing.",
"tags": ["Stone, Building, Material"],
"recipe": ["None"],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Reinforced Deepslate",
"description": "Can be found at the central structure of Ancient Cities.",
"tags": ["Stone, Building"],
"recipe": ["None"],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Tuff",
"description": "A block that can be found in vein form in the Deepslate layer of the Overworld. It can also be part of iron ore veins found below y=0.
You can craft Polished Tuff from Tuff, Tuff Bricks from Polished Tuff, Chiseled Tuff from Tuff slabs, and Chiseled Tuff Bricks from Tuff Brick slabs. These blocks often appear in underground Trial Chambers.",
"tags": ["Stone, Building"],
"recipe": ["None"],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Bricks",
"description": "A block that can be crafted using brick items.",
"tags": ["Building, Material"],
"recipe": ["Place 4 brick items in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting table."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Mud Bricks",
"description": "Packed Mud is crafted using Wheat and Mud, and can be used to make Mud Bricks.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Craft Packed Mud from Wheat and Mud, then place Mud Bricks in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting table."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Resin Bricks",
"description": "Can be crafted from Resin Bricks. Chiseled Resin Bricks can be crafted from Resin Brick slabs.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Resin Bricks in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting table."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Sandstone",
"description": "Can be crafted from Sand or found in Desert biomes. Chiseled Sandstone can be crafted from sandstone slabs or processed using a stonecutter, featuring a Creeper face on the side.
Smooth Sandstone is obtained by smelting Sandstone in a furnace, and Cut Sandstone is crafted from Sandstone or processed using a stonecutter.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Sand in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting table."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Prismarine",
"description": "Crafted from Prismarine Shards and is a central block in Ocean Monuments.
Prismarine’s texture shifts in color through light blue, green, purple, and navy centered around a crack-like pattern. One cycle takes 5 minutes and 30 seconds, during which it changes color 22 times irregularly.
Prismarine Bricks are made from Prismarine Shards, and Dark Prismarine is made from Prismarine Shards and Ink Sacs or black dye.
Prismarine blocks, Prismarine Bricks, and Dark Prismarine blocks can be used to build Conduits.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Prismarine Shards in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 to make Prismarine. Place them in slots 1 through 9 to make Prismarine Bricks. Place them in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, and Ink Sac in slot 5 to make Dark Prismarine."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Nether Bricks",
"description": "Crafted from Nether Brick items. Main block used in Nether Fortresses.
Chiseled Nether Bricks can be crafted from Nether Brick slabs. Cracked Nether Bricks are made by smelting Nether Bricks in a furnace.
Nether Brick Fences are made using Nether Brick items and Nether Brick blocks. These fences do not connect directly with wooden fences and require a fence gate to link (MC-197992).
Red Nether Bricks are crafted from Nether Brick items and Nether Wart.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Nether Brick items in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 to make Nether Bricks. Place a Nether Brick in slot 24 and a Nether Wart in slot 15 to make Red Nether Bricks."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Basalt",
"description": "Forms the Basalt Deltas biome in the Nether and is also found in the Soul Sand Valley biome.
When Lava touches Blue Ice and there is Soul Soil beneath the Lava, it solidifies into Basalt.
Smooth Basalt is made by smelting Basalt in a furnace, or it can be found forming the outer layer of Amethyst Geodes.
Polished Basalt is made from Basalt and is mainly used for building purposes.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Smelt Basalt in a furnace to get Smooth Basalt. Place Basalt in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 to get Polished Basalt."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Blackstone",
"description": "A block that forms part of the Basalt Deltas biome in the Nether. It can also be found in vein form throughout other parts of the Nether.
Blackstone can replace Cobblestone in major crafting recipes where Cobblestone is normally used. Its color is very similar to Deepslate blocks, making it useful for building.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": [],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "End Stone",
"description": "A primary block that makes up the End dimension and one of the blocks the Ender Dragon cannot break.
End Stone Bricks can be crafted from End Stone or by processing End Stone in a Stonecutter. Using a Stonecutter, you can also create End Stone Brick Stairs, Slabs, and Walls from End Stone.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Like other stones, place End Stone in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting grid to make End Stone Bricks. End Stone Bricks can be further crafted into stairs and slabs."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Purpur Block",
"description": "Can be crafted from Popped Chorus Fruit and is also found in End Cities.
Purpur Pillars can be crafted using Purpur Slabs.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Popped Chorus Fruit in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting grid to make Purpur Block. Purpur Blocks can be used to make stairs and slabs."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Ore Blocks",
"description": "Can be crafted from corresponding underground resources. Iron, Copper, Gold, and Netherite use ingot forms as materials. These blocks are useful for building or storage, and can all be broken back down into 9 raw materials. Some of these blocks can also be used to build pyramids under beacons to enhance effects. Except for Redstone Blocks, all ore blocks require the same minimum pickaxe level as their respective ores.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place 9 of Coal, Iron, Gold, Emerald, Lapis Lazuli, Diamond, or Netherite Ingots in slots 1–9 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Iron Bars",
"description": "Can be crafted from Iron Ingots. Also found in structures in the Overworld and surrounding End Crystals on Obsidian pillars in the End.
When placed alone, it appears as a thin rod. If connected to blocks, other iron bars, or glass panes, it forms a proper fence shape. Unlike fences and walls, it retains a height of 1 like glass panes.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Iron Ingots in slots 1–6 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Quartz Block",
"description": "Crafted using Nether Quartz. You can make derived blocks like Smooth Quartz by smelting, or decorative variants from Quartz Blocks.
It has a white marble-like color, making it popular in ancient temples and modern houses.
Chiseled Quartz Block is made from Quartz Slabs.
Quartz Bricks and Quartz Pillars are made from Quartz Blocks.
Smooth Quartz Block is created by smelting Quartz Blocks in a furnace.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place Nether Quartz in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting grid to make Quartz Block. Smelt it to make Smooth Quartz Block. Can also be used to craft stairs and slabs."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Copper Block",
"description": "Made from 9 Copper Ingots and used as a main block in Trial Chambers.
Copper Blocks oxidize over time, turning from orange to green.
It has many variants, including 6 base types and items like Copper Bulb, Copper Door, and Copper Trapdoor — totaling 9 forms. Considering oxidation stages and waxed versions, there are 72 types in total.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"recipe": ["Place 9 Copper Ingots in slots 1–9 to craft a Copper Block. Place it in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 to get Cut Copper, or in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8 to get Copper Grate. Cut Copper can be used to craft slabs and stairs."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Redstone Dust",
"description": "Can be obtained by mining Redstone Ore, smelting, breaking down Redstone Blocks, trading with Cleric Villagers, or killing Witches. Also found in some structures.
Primarily used to lay Redstone Wire. Redstone Dust alone doesn’t emit signals; it transmits signals from powered sources. Signal strength decreases by 1 per block, max range being 15 blocks.
Wires can't be placed on walls, but if placed above or below a block, side connections form. However, placing a solid block directly above a lower wire prevents signal flow.
Also used in crafting many Redstone devices. Can be compacted into Redstone Blocks or used in brewing to extend potion duration. When used with just water bottles, creates mundane potions.
Right-clicking disconnected Redstone Dust hides the outward red wire spokes.",
"tags": ["Redstone Signal Transmission, Material"],
"recipe": ["Mine Redstone Ore"],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Redstone Torch",
"description": "Crafted from Redstone Dust and a Stick. Sometimes found in structures.
Can be placed on solid sides except the bottom. Breaks if the block it’s attached to is destroyed. Dimmer than regular torches.
Emits a signal strength of 15 by default. Sends signals upward or downward (if placed on sides).
If powered from the block it’s attached to, turns off after 3 ticks. Used for creating NOT circuits and traps.
If toggled more than 8 times in 3 seconds, it forcibly turns off with a popping sound and black particles, and remains off until the cause is removed.",
"tags": ["Redstone Signal Source, Turns Off When Powered"],
"recipe": ["Place Stick in slot 5 and Redstone Dust in slot 8 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Redstone Block",
"description": "Crafted from Redstone Dust. Can be decomposed back into Dust.
Permanently emits Redstone signal. Being a full solid block, it can power rails and disable Redstone torches placed on it.
Unlike other ore blocks, which need a matching-tier pickaxe as the ore, Redstone Blocks can be mined with any pickaxe.",
"tags": ["Redstone Signal Generator"],
"recipe": ["Place Redstone Dust in slots 1–9 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Redstone Repeater",
"description": "Crafted using Stone, Redstone Dust, and Redstone Torches.
The side with the torch on the wire is the input side; the side with the off-wire torch is the output. Plate patterns also indicate direction.
Boosts incoming signal to 15 strength and sends it out the opposite side. Right-clicking cycles the delay, shown by the torch distance.
Default delay is 0.1 seconds (2 ticks), medium delay is 0.2 seconds (4 ticks), max delay is 0.4 seconds (8 ticks). Right-click again resets to shortest delay.",
"tags": ["Redstone Signal Amplification and Delay"],
"recipe": ["Place Stone in slots 1, 2, 3, Redstone Torches in 4 and 6, and Redstone Dust in slot 5 of the crafting grid."]


"item_name": "Redstone Comparator",
"description": "Crafted using Stone, Redstone Torches, and Nether Quartz.
The side with two Redstone Torches is the input, and the side with one torch is the output. Like a repeater, the plate shape indicates the signal direction. It has a slight delay, shorter than a repeater, and can be used for delay purposes.
The comparator receives input not only from the rear but also from both sides. In default comparison mode, it compares the side signals with the rear signal. If the rear signal is stronger or equal to the side signals, it transmits the rear signal strength. Otherwise, it transmits nothing.
In subtraction mode (activated by interacting and turning on the front torch), it subtracts the side signal strength from the rear signal and outputs the result. Negative signals are not supported, so if the side signal is equal or stronger, no signal is output.
It also outputs signal strength based on the capacity or state of functional blocks like chests, hoppers, and furnaces. For example, the more items in a container relative to its slots, the stronger the signal (up to 15). Special blocks like lecterns and jukeboxes also output signals based on state.
Due to its complexity, it’s one of the most advanced Redstone devices. Additional blocks like Redstone Blocks, Lecterns, and Sculk Sensors can also output signals using comparators.
In Bedrock Edition, it is translated as 'Redstone Compare Circuit'.",
"tags": ["Redstone Signal Comparison, Block-based Signal Output"],
"recipe": ["Place Stone in slots 1 2 3, Redstone Torches in 4 6 8, and Nether Quartz in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Copper Bulb",
"description": "Crafted using a Copper Block, Blaze Rod, and Redstone Dust. Can also be made with oxidized copper; the result reflects the oxidation stage. Blocks of different stages cannot be mixed.
There are 4 oxidation stages and each has 4 states. It functions like Redstone Lamps but stays lit even after losing power—turns off only when it receives another signal. When powered, a red glow appears at its center.
Unlike Redstone Lamps, Copper Bulbs do not transmit Redstone signals. You can remove oxidation with an axe or lock the state using Honeycomb.
A comparator can detect its on/off state, making 2–3 block T Flip-Flop circuits possible. It can also retain state when pushed by pistons, allowing for mechanical storage device use like a hard disk.",
"tags": ["Toggleable Lighting"],
"recipe": ["Place Copper Block in slots 4 6 8, Redstone Dust in slot 2, and Blaze Rod in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Stone Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Target",
"description": "Crafted from Redstone Dust and a Hay Bale.
When hit by a projectile, emits a Redstone signal for 0.4 seconds. The closer the hit to the center, the stronger the signal (up to 15).
Triggers include: Arrows, Eggs, Snowballs, Fireballs, Splash/Lingering Potions, Tridents, Ender Pearls, XP Bottles, Elytra gliding collisions, Firework Rockets, Fishing Hooks, Llama Spit.
Also functions as a solid block that can bend Redstone wire direction and pass signals to adjacent mechanisms.",
"tags": ["Signal on Projectile Impact"],
"recipe": ["Place Redstone Dust in slots 2 4 6 8, and Hay Bale in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Lever",
"description": "Crafted from a Stick and Cobblestone. Found in some structures.
Can be placed on any solid face. Defaults to facing upward when on sides, east when on the bottom, and south when on top.
Interacting toggles its state and provides continuous Redstone signal to the attached block. When powered, Redstone particles appear.",
"tags": ["Constant Signal Supply"],
"recipe": ["Place Stick in slot 8 and Cobblestone in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Button",
"description": "Made from any wood plank, stone, or Polished Blackstone. Found in some structures.
When pressed, emits a short Redstone signal toward the attached block. Duration: 1.5 seconds (wood), 1 second (stone).
Wood buttons can be activated by arrows and tridents; stone and blackstone require player interaction.",
"tags": ["Momentary Signal"],
"recipe": ["Place material in any slot of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": ["Wood: Axe, Stone: Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Pressure Plate",
"description": "Made from any wood plank, stone, or Polished Blackstone. Found in some structures.
Placed on top of blocks. Emits a Redstone signal of strength 15 when triggered by an entity. Signal stops 1.5 seconds after deactivation.
Wood plates can be triggered by items or arrows. Often used for Redstone machines or furniture (e.g., tables on fences).",
"tags": ["Momentary Signal"],
"recipe": ["Place material in slots 1 and 2."],
"optimal_tool": ["Wood: Axe, Stone: Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Weighted Pressure Plate",
"description": "Light variant is made from 2 Gold Ingots, heavy from 2 Iron Ingots.
Signal strength depends on the number of entities on the plate. Lighter variant requires fewer items to trigger stronger signals. Items stack, so throw multiple kinds for accurate testing.",
"tags": ["Signal Strength Based on Entity Count"],
"recipe": ["Place Iron or Gold Ingots in slots 1 and 2."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Sculk Sensor",
"description": "Found in Deep Dark biomes and Ancient City structures.
Detects sound/vibration within 8 blocks. When a vibration occurs, a Sculk Wave particle flies toward it, triggering a signal and glowing tendrils.
Other sensors or shriekers nearby can also be triggered. Has a 2-second cooldown. Submerged sensors make no sound.
Wool blocks block Sculk waves. Signal strength varies by action. Warden cannot trigger sensors but can detect their reaction.",
"tags": ["Sound and Vibration Detection"],
"recipe": ["None"],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Calibrated Sculk Sensor",
"description": "Crafted from a Sculk Sensor and Amethyst Shards.
Behaves like a regular sensor but only reacts to vibrations matching the strength of an external Redstone signal applied to the Amethyst side. Ignores all others.
Has a 1-second cooldown and doubled range (16 blocks). Warden cannot detect signals from this sensor.
Without Redstone signal input, functions as a stronger Sculk Sensor. Can send wireless signals using Amethyst resonance. Limited bandwidth and difficult signal generation are its downsides.",
"tags": ["Sound and Vibration Detection"],
"recipe": ["None"],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Tripwire Hook",
"description": "Crafted from Iron Ingot, Stick, and Wooden Plank. Found in Jungle Temple structures.
Place on block sides facing each other and connect with string. When an entity touches the string, both hooks lower and emit Redstone signal.
Breaking the string with shears disables the signal. Maximum length is 40 blocks, allowing longer-range transmission than repeaters.
Used in mechanical relays via pistons and minecarts. Prone to false triggers from mobs—better built high or underground. Timing with other Redstone circuits may be tricky.",
"tags": ["Signal via Connected String"],
"recipe": ["Place Iron Ingot in slot 8, Stick in slot 5, and Wooden Plank in slot 2."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Lectern",
"description": "Crafted from wooden slabs and a bookshelf. Found in villages with librarian villagers.
Can display and read books, book & quills, and written books. When exiting the UI, the last-read page is remembered for all players.
In Java Edition, flipping pages emits a constant signal of 15. In Bedrock Edition, signal strength depends on the ratio of pages turned. Turning a page emits a brief signal through connected Redstone wires, and comparators output a signal based on the current page—page 1 emits 1, the last page emits 15. Used as a workstation for librarian villagers.",
"tags": ["Book Display and Reading, Page-Based Signal Output"],
"recipe": ["Place wooden slabs in slots 2 7 8 9 and a bookshelf in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Daylight Detector",
"description": "Crafted from glass, Nether quartz, and wooden slabs.
A Redstone device with a height of 3/8 blocks. Measures sunlight intensity to output a signal. Blocks above reduce signal strength.
Initially emits signals during daytime. Right-clicking changes it to an Inverted Daylight Detector, which emits at night.
Normal detector emits 1 signal strength at sunrise and 15 at noon. Inverted does the opposite with moonlight. Rain reduces max output (12 for rain, 10 for thunderstorms).
In Bedrock Edition, translated as 'Daylight Sensor'.",
"tags": ["Time-Based Signal Output"],
"recipe": ["Place wooden slabs in slots 1 2 3, Nether quartz in 4 5 6, and glass in 7 8 9."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Lightning Rod",
"description": "Crafted from copper ingots.
Can be placed on any surface. During rain/thunderstorms, it attracts lightning within 128 or 64 blocks and outputs a signal strength of 15 when struck.
Prevents fire or can be used to lure lightning to mobs when Channeling enchantment is unavailable.
Not affected by Channeling tridents or command-summoned lightning. Can be equipped to heads via commands, visually resembling an antenna.
In Bedrock Edition, translated as 'Lightning Stick'.",
"tags": ["Lightning Attraction"],
"recipe": ["Place copper ingots in slots 2 5 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["Stone Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Observer",
"description": "Crafted from cobblestone, Redstone dust, and Nether quartz.
Detects block updates 1 block in front of its face (the side with the 'face') and outputs a signal of 15 strength for 1 tick in the opposite direction.
Placement direction is critical—the red dot side faces the player. Placing two facing each other causes infinite signal loops.
In Bedrock Edition, translated as 'Observer'.",
"tags": ["Block Update Detection"],
"recipe": ["Place cobblestone in slots 1 2 3 7 8 9, Redstone dust in 4 and 5, and Nether quartz in slot 6."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Trapped Chest",
"description": "Crafted from a chest and a tripwire hook.
Emits a signal of strength 1 per interacting player. Useful for multiplayer-based triggers.
The latch of a trapped chest has a faint red tint compared to normal chests, helping to distinguish it.
Otherwise functions identically to a regular chest.
In Bedrock Edition, translated as 'Trap Chest'.",
"tags": ["Signal on Open"],
"recipe": ["Place wooden chest in slot 7 and tripwire hook in slot 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Piston",
"description": "Crafted with 4 cobblestones, 3 wooden planks, 1 iron ingot, and 1 Redstone dust. Found in Jungle Temples.
Extends 1 block forward when powered. Pushes up to 12 blocks if obstructed. Retracts when signal is off.
Combine with slimeball to make Sticky Piston, which pulls blocks back. Can only pull one block directly touching its face.
Java Edition has quirks with short (≤1 tick) pulses causing issues. Proper timing can push/pull blocks more than 1 block.
Officially added based on a community mod by Hippoplatimus, who is credited in the game.",
"tags": ["Block Pushing and Pulling"],
"recipe": ["Craft piston: Cobblestone in 1 3 4 6, Redstone in 2, wooden planks in 1 2 3, iron ingot in 5. Then craft Sticky Piston: piston in slot 5, slimeball in slot 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Slime Block",
"description": "Crafted from 9 slimeballs. Can be decomposed.
Entities move slower on it and it is slippery. Negates fall damage and causes bounce proportional to fall height.
Bounce effect works through carpets, rails, trapdoors, and comparators.
If attached to slime, up to 12 blocks can be pushed/pulled by a piston. Vertical push causes bouncing. Cannot be combined with honey blocks or immovable blocks.
Also used to brew potions of Slowness.",
"tags": ["Block Adhesion"],
"recipe": ["Place slimeballs in slots 1–9."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Honey Block",
"description": "Crafted from honey bottles. Can be reverted with bottles and the block.
Similar to slime blocks but with differences: slows falling if clinging to sides, reduces fall damage by 80% without bouncing.
Slightly less slowdown and jump height reduction than slime. Players' jump is reduced by 3/16 block. Mobs avoid stepping on it, while bees approach and rub against it.
Piston behavior is like slime blocks, but cannot be combined with them. Entities in contact are moved with the block.
Collision box is 14x14x14, smaller than full blocks—projectiles can pass, and mobs can detect players beyond it.",
"tags": ["Block and Entity Adhesion"],
"recipe": ["Place honey bottles in slots 1 2 4 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Dispenser",
"description": "Crafted using cobblestone, Redstone dust, and a bow. Found as part of Jungle Temple structures.
Can hold up to 9 items and fires one randomly when powered by a Redstone signal. To fire repeatedly, the signal must be toggled off and on.
Fires after 4 ticks (0.2 seconds). Most items are simply dropped, but some behave uniquely:
- Arrows: Fired like from a bow (fixed 3 damage if no modifiers).
- Eggs/Snowballs: Thrown projectile, eggs may spawn chickens.
- Bone Meal: Grows crops like right-click.
- Fire Charges: Ignite blocks like Blaze fireballs.
- Splash/Throwable Potions: Behave like thrown by player.
- Buckets: Collect nearby water/lava if empty, place if filled.
- TNT: Placed and ignited immediately.
- Armor: Equips onto entities.
- Minecart/Boat: Placed if rail/water is in front.
- Firework: Launched in front.
- Glass Bottle: Converts to water bottle or collects honey if target available.
- Shears: Shears sheep or harvests honeycomb from hives (no smoke needed).
- Glowstone: Charges a respawn anchor.
- Water Bottle: Turns dirt into mud.
- Blocks: Places final blocks in golem/wither summoning structures.
- Spawn Eggs: Spawns the corresponding mob.
- Shulker Box: Placed directly in front.
Due to bows not stacking, mass crafting is inconvenient compared to other Redstone components.",
"tags": ["Fires Internal Items"],
"recipe": ["Place cobblestone in slots 1 3 4 6 7 8 9, Redstone dust in slot 2, bow in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Dropper",
"description": "Crafted using cobblestone and Redstone dust.
Similar to a dispenser, but simply drops an item rather than activating it. If a container is directly in front, items are inserted.
Cannot pull items like hoppers. If target container is full, nothing is dropped.
Useful for shooting items upward (which hoppers can't do). Must toggle signal to drop repeatedly.
In Bedrock Edition, translated as 'Dropper'.",
"tags": ["Drops Internal Items"],
"recipe": ["Place cobblestone in slots 1 3 4 6 7 8 9, Redstone dust in slot 2."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Hopper",
"description": "Crafted from iron ingots and a chest.
Has 5 inventory slots. Pulls items from above and transfers to a connected container via the spout (except upward).
Transfers 2.5 items/second. Item collection range is 1x1x1. Doesn't collect items blocked by full-size blocks.
Face changes based on side placement. Needs droppers or bubble columns to move items upward.
While powered, hoppers don’t collect or transfer items.
Formerly translated as 'Funnel' in Java Edition.",
"tags": ["Item Collection and Delivery"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 2 4 6 7 9, chest in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Rail",
"description": "A non-solid block for minecarts. Must be placed on solid top surfaces (e.g., stone, slabs, trapdoors).
Placement adapts to nearby rails—can form straight lines, curves, or slopes (up to 1 block).
No crossing/intersection rails exist—only straight or curved.
Used with levers for turnout switching.
Entities ignore rails when moving. Minecarts use them exclusively.
Crafted from iron ingots and a stick.
Translation kept as 'Rail' since 'track' implies a system, not just a component.",
"tags": ["Minecart Path"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 1 3 4 6 7 9, stick in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Powered Rail",
"description": "Crafted with 6 gold ingots, 1 Redstone dust, and 1 stick (makes 6).
Activated by Redstone within 8 blocks. Unpowered rails slow/stop carts, useful for stations. Powered rails greatly increase speed.
Partial coverage suffices due to carried momentum.",
"tags": ["Minecart Accelerator"],
"recipe": ["Place gold ingots in slots 1 3 4 6 7 9, stick in slot 5, Redstone dust in slot 2."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Detector Rail",
"description": "Crafted with 6 iron ingots, 1 Redstone dust, and 1 stone pressure plate (makes 6).
Only activates with a minecart on it, emitting a 10-tick (0.5 sec) signal:
- Outputs strength 15 to adjacent Redstone dust or repeaters.
- Outputs strength based on fullness of minecart containers to comparators.
- Activates adjacent blocks (pistons, hoppers, powered rails, etc.).",
"tags": ["Signal Output from Minecart"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 1 3 4 6 7 9, Redstone dust in slot 2, pressure plate in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Activator Rail",
"description": "Crafted with 6 iron ingots, 2 sticks, and 1 Redstone torch (makes 6).
When powered and triggered by a cart, it:
- Forces riders off.
- Disables hopper minecarts.
- Ignites TNT minecarts.
- Triggers command block minecarts every 4 ticks.",
"tags": ["Triggers Minecart Functions"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 1 3 4 6 7 9, sticks in slots 2 and 8, Redstone torch in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Minecart",
"description": "Crafted from iron ingots.
Carries players or mobs along rails. Right-click to ride; Shift to dismount. If space is unavailable, players remain standing inside.
Entities near carts are pulled in. Mobs in carts don’t despawn (except Wandering Trader).
Some mobs (e.g., Iron Golems, Wardens, bosses) cannot ride. Only special methods eject mobs.
Player-controlled carts reduce knockback, useful in boss fights. Boats can ride carts in Java Edition.
Max speed: 8 m/s (straight), 11.31 m/s (diagonal).
Overhead clearance of 1.5 blocks is needed to avoid suffocation.
An old bug causes carts to move indefinitely when stacked.",
"tags": ["Entity Transport"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 1 2 3 4 6."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Minecart with Hopper",
"description": "Functions like a regular hopper. Can collect items above it, with a wider range than standard hoppers. It collects items up to 2 blocks above even through solid blocks.
However, when extracting from containers, it only pulls from the block directly above its own coordinates. If positioned between two blocks, it pulls from the closest one.
Pulling speed: 20 items/sec (8x faster than a hopper), output speed: 2.5 items/sec (same as hopper).
Cannot interact directly with comparators but can interact indirectly via detector rails.
When passing over an active activator rail, the hopper function is disabled until it passes over an inactive activator rail again.
On powered rails, it can travel up to 64 blocks when empty or 16 blocks when full.",
"tags": ["Automatic Item Collection and Transport"],
"recipe": ["Place minecart in slot 7 and hopper in slot 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Minecart with Chest",
"description": "Functions as a chest on rails. Triggers nearby Piglins when opened. No animation or sound for opening.
On powered rails, travels up to 64 blocks when empty or 16 blocks when full.
Can interact with hoppers:
- Passing over a hopper: items move from chest to hopper.
- Passing below a hopper: items move from hopper to chest.
Found in abandoned mineshafts, sometimes containing rails, seeds, etc.",
"tags": ["Item Storage and Transport"],
"recipe": ["Place minecart in slot 7 and chest in slot 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Minecart with Furnace",
"description": "Java Edition only. Does not function as a furnace but can be fueled with coal or charcoal to move on its own while emitting smoke.
One fuel provides 3600 ticks (3 minutes, or 720 meters) of movement.
Right-clicking (not with fuel) changes its direction. After derailing and returning to tracks, it moves in the direction it was placed.
Can push connected minecarts like a train, but the movement is unstable and not recommended.
Cannot be boosted/slowed by powered rails. Unaffected by slopes or pushing other minecarts.
Intentionally excluded from Bedrock Edition. Also considered for removal in Java Edition.",
"tags": ["Self-Propulsion"],
"recipe": ["Place minecart in slot 7 and furnace in slot 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Minecart with TNT",
"description": "Explodes under two main conditions:
**Delayed Explosion**:
- Passing over an active activator rail
- Taking damage while in motion
- Set on fire, or destroyed by fire/lava/explosions
- Hit by fireballs (Java Edition)

**Instant Explosion**:
- Falling from 3+ blocks onto a non-rail block
- Hitting curved rails at high speed
- Hit by flaming arrows
- Forced into blocks/entities at high speed
- Colliding with a furnace cart

Base explosion power is 4 (same as TNT), plus bonus based on speed (up to +7.5). Max: 11.5.
Explosion strength varies by:
- Horizontal speed (activator rail or damage)
- Arrow speed (flaming arrow)
- Fall distance ÷ 10 (fall-triggered)",
"tags": ["Explodes on Collision"],
"recipe": ["Place minecart in slot 7 and TNT in slot 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Note Block",
"description": "Crafted using wooden planks and Redstone dust.
Emits a sound based on pitch and the block underneath. No sound if a block is above it.
Right-click to change pitch. Pitch is shown as colored note particles.

Instrument changes based on block underneath:
- Wood/Note Block: Double Bass
- Sand/Gravel: Snare Drum
- Glass: Clicks
- Stone/Ores: Bass Drum
- Packed Ice: Chime
- Gold Block: Bell
- Clay/Honeycomb (BE): Flute
- Wool: Guitar
- Bone Block: Xylophone
- Iron Block: Iron Xylophone
- Soul Sand: Cowbell
- Pumpkin: Didgeridoo
- Emerald Block: Bit
- Hay Bale: Banjo
- Glowstone: Pling
- Others: Piano/Harp

Head blocks on top create mob sounds:
- Skeleton Head: Skeleton sound
- Wither Skeleton Head: Wither Skeleton
- Player Head: Note Block sound
- Zombie Head: Zombie
- Creeper Head: Creeper Fuse
- Piglin Head: Piglin
- Dragon Head: Ender Dragon roar",
"tags": ["Sound Emission"],
"recipe": ["Place wooden planks in slots 1 2 3 4 6 7 8 9 and Redstone dust in slot 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Wooden Door",
"description": "Crafted using wooden planks.
3/16 thick, 2 blocks tall, must be placed on a solid surface. Breaks if support block is removed.
Can be opened by players, villagers, Piglins, Wandering Traders (BE), and Vindicators (JE).
Zombies, Husks, and zombified Piglins can break doors on Hard difficulty.

Redstone signal:
- Opens door when signal is on, closes when off.
- Players and mobs can manually open/close regardless of Redstone state.
- Similar to Redstone lamps—state is locked based on signal presence.
- Use pressure plates for automatic doors.

Placement rules:
- Door faces opposite the player.
- Hinge depends on which side is closer during placement.
- Adjacent solid blocks force the hinge direction.
- Placing next to another door forms double doors.",
"tags": ["Entry, Locking"],
"recipe": ["Place materials in slots 1 2 4 5 7 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Iron Door",
"description": "Crafted from iron ingots.
Similar to wooden doors but sturdier. Cannot be opened or closed by players or mobs—only via Redstone signal. Used commonly in adventure maps as security doors that require Redstone activation.",
"tags": ["Conditional Entry, Locking"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 1 2 4 5 7 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Copper Door",
"description": "Stronger than wooden doors. Mobs cannot break or open it, but players can interact with it.
Over time, the door oxidizes like copper blocks. The appearance changes, but function remains the same.",
"tags": ["Entry, Locking"],
"recipe": ["Place copper ingots in slots 1 2 4 5 7 8."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Wooden Fence Gate",
"description": "Crafted from sticks and wooden planks.
Has higher collision bounds than most blocks, so only certain mobs can jump over it. Only players can open/close it by interaction, but all mobs can walk through when it's open.
Redstone signal opens the gate; loss of signal closes it. Signals do not toggle state.
Connects to fences and walls (with walls placed slightly lower).
Not wearable, but can be attached to the head using commands (appears as glasses).",
"tags": ["Entry, Locking, Fence"],
"recipe": ["Place wooden sticks in slots 1 3 4 6 and wooden planks in slots 2 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Wooden Trapdoor",
"description": "Crafted from wooden planks.
Block height is 3/16. Can be placed in all directions and doesn’t break when unsupported.
Only players can open/close it. Redstone signal opens it; losing signal closes it.
By default, the hinge is opposite the player. When placed on a block’s side, it aligns with the upper/lower face depending on placement.
Mobs treat open trapdoors as closed, useful for creating traps.",
"tags": ["Entry, Locking"],
"recipe": ["Place materials in slots 1 2 3 4 5 6."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Iron Trapdoor",
"description": "Crafted from iron ingots.
Same as wooden trapdoors, except cannot be opened/closed by any entity including players. Requires Redstone signal.",
"tags": ["Conditional Entry, Locking"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 1 2 4 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Copper Trapdoor",
"description": "Crafted from copper ingots.",
"tags": ["Entry, Locking"],
"recipe": ["Place copper ingots in slots 1 2 3 4 5 6."],
"optimal_tool": ["Stone Pickaxe or better"]


"item_name": "TNT",
"description": "Crafted using sand (or red sand) and gunpowder. Found in desert pyramids.
Ignites via fire, Redstone, flint and steel, or explosions, flashing white and exploding after 80 ticks (4 seconds). Chain-ignited TNT explodes after 10–40 ticks (0.5–2 seconds).
Unstable TNT (debug only) ignites when broken.
Ignited TNT becomes an entity affected by gravity and physics. Damage varies by difficulty. Blocks in the blast are dropped if not resistant. Items are destroyed. Underwater explosions do not destroy blocks but still hurt entities.
TNT lit by players (fire, flaming arrows, tridents, etc.) is attributed to that player—earning XP, causing mob aggression, and bypassing shield defense. TNT lit by flaming skeleton arrows or drowned tridents is attributed to them, enabling creative mob farming.",
"tags": ["Explosion"],
"recipe": ["Place sand in slots 2 4 6 8 and gunpowder in 1 3 5 7 9."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Redstone Lamp",
"description": "Crafted with glowstone and Redstone dust.
Lights up (brightness 15) when powered. Turns off after 4 ticks (0.2 seconds) once signal stops.
Unlike glowstone, it's a full solid block.
Translated as 'Redstone Lamp' in Bedrock Edition.",
"tags": ["Toggleable Light"],
"recipe": ["Place Redstone dust in 2 4 6 8 and glowstone in 5."],
"optimal_tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Crafter",
"description": "Crafted from iron ingots, crafting table, Redstone dust, and dropper.
Functions like a mix of crafting table and dropper—crafts items automatically when powered.
GUI is similar to crafting table. Placing items in recipe pattern shows result on the right, but players cannot extract it manually.
When powered, it crafts and ejects items forward. Residuals (e.g. buckets) are also ejected.
Stored input is shared across players and persists after closing GUI.

Slots can be disabled/enabled by clicking them—affecting how items are received or crafted.
Receives items via hoppers/droppers. If a container is in front, output is inserted. Otherwise, items are ejected.

Input behavior:
- Prioritizes empty, enabled slots (top-left to bottom-right).
- If full, stacks identical items starting with smallest stacks.

Output behavior:
- Ejects if target container is full.
- Hoppers below pull items even without crafting.
Comparators detect 0–9 signal strength based on active/filled slots.
Can face all directions. In Bedrock, translated as 'Crafter'.
Also has an advancement for crafting itself with a crafter.",
"tags": ["Auto Crafting"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in 4 6 7 8 9, Redstone dust in 1 3, crafting table in 5, and dropper in 2."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Shovel",
"description": "Shovels break dirt, gravel, and sand faster. Made with 1 tool material and 2 sticks.
Netherite shovels are made using a smithing template, a diamond shovel, and a netherite ingot at the smithing table.
Can create dirt paths by right-clicking dirt blocks, extinguish campfires, and collect snow as items (other tools can't without Silk Touch).
Attack damage and durability by material:
- Wood: 2.5 dmg, 59 uses
- Stone: 3.5 dmg, 131 uses
- Iron: 4.5 dmg, 250 uses
- Gold: 2.5 dmg, 32 uses
- Diamond: 5.5 dmg, 1562 uses
- Netherite: 6.5 dmg, 2031 uses",
"tags": ["Fast Digging: Dirt, Gravel, Sand"],
"recipe": ["Place tool material in slot 8 and sticks in slots 2 and 5."]


"item_name": "Pickaxe",
"description": "Pickaxes are tools that increase block breaking speed for stones, ores, and metal blocks which cannot be collected bare-handed. Crafted with 3 tool materials and 2 sticks. Netherite pickaxes are made by combining a smithing template (Netherite Upgrade), a diamond pickaxe, and a netherite ingot at a smithing table.
Unlike other tools, pickaxes can only mine certain blocks depending on their material. Higher-tier pickaxes can mine more types. For example, wooden or golden pickaxes can only mine stone and coal, while a diamond pickaxe can mine obsidian and ancient debris.
Attack Damage & Durability by material:
Wood: 2 ATK, 59 durability
Stone: 3 ATK, 131 durability
Iron: 4 ATK, 250 durability
Gold: 2 ATK, 32 durability
Diamond: 5 ATK, 1562 durability
Netherite: 6 ATK, 2031 durability",
"tags": ["Fast mining: stone, ores, etc."],
"recipe": ["Place the same material in slots 7 8 9, and wooden sticks in 2 5."]


"item_name": "Axe",
"description": "Axes increase the breaking speed of wood blocks, some natural blocks, and wooden functional blocks. Crafted with 3 tool materials and 2 sticks. Netherite axes are made by combining a smithing template (Netherite Upgrade), a diamond axe, and a netherite ingot at a smithing table.
Right-click logs to strip bark; can also remove oxidation and wax from copper blocks.
Attack Damage & Durability by material:
Wood: 7 ATK, 59 durability
Stone: 9 ATK, 131 durability
Iron: 9 ATK, 250 durability
Gold: 7 ATK, 32 durability
Diamond: 9 ATK, 1562 durability
Netherite: 10 ATK, 2031 durability",
"tags": ["Fast chopping: wood"],
"recipe": ["Place tool material in slots 4 7 8, and wooden sticks in 2 5."]


"item_name": "Hoe",
"description": "Hoes are tools that increase the breaking speed of leaves, sculk-type blocks, etc. Crafted with 2 tool materials and 2 sticks. Netherite hoes are made by combining a smithing template (Netherite Upgrade), a diamond hoe, and a netherite ingot at a smithing table.
Can turn dirt or grass into farmland, and coarse/rooted dirt back to dirt. All material hoes till soil at the same speed.
Attack Damage: 1 for all types.
Durability:
Wood: 59
Stone: 131
Iron: 250
Gold: 32
Diamond: 1562
Netherite: 2031",
"tags": ["Soil tilling"],
"recipe": ["Place tool material in slots 7 8, and wooden sticks in 2 5."]


"item_name": "Bucket",
"description": "Made with 3 iron ingots. Can also be found in chests in villages, woodland mansions, trial chambers, and dungeons.
Interacts with water, lava, powder snow, and cows to become water bucket, lava bucket, powder snow bucket, or milk bucket respectively.
Can also collect fish (salmon, cod, tropical fish, pufferfish), axolotls, and tadpoles, which can be released with the water later.
Interacts with cows, mooshrooms, and goats to collect milk.",
"tags": ["Stores water, lava, powder snow, milk"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 2 4 6."]


"item_name": "Fishing Rod",
"description": "Crafted with sticks and string. Has two uses: fishing and pulling entities.
When used without a target, right-click casts the bobber. Place it in water to start fishing. After 5–30 seconds, particles approach the bobber. Right-click again to catch items. Rain reduces wait time, blocks above increase it. Durability: 64.",
"tags": ["Fishing, pulling entities"],
"recipe": ["Place sticks in slots 1 5 9, and string in slots 3 6."]


"item_name": "Flint and Steel",
"description": "Crafted from flint and iron ingot. Also found in ruined portals and Nether fortress chests.
Right-click to ignite a block. Useful for clearing forests or lighting Nether portals. Durability: 64.",
"tags": ["Ignition, activates Nether portal"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingot in slot 7, flint in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Fire Charge",
"description": "Made with coal (or charcoal), blaze powder, and gunpowder. Can also be obtained via Piglin bartering or structure chests.
Used like Flint and Steel to ignite blocks or light Nether portals. Single-use.",
"tags": ["Ingredient, ignition"],
"recipe": ["Place coal/charcoal in slot 7, blaze powder in 8, gunpowder in 4."]


"item_name": "Bone Meal",
"description": "Crafted from bones or bone blocks. Also obtained via composters. Can be crafted into white dye.
Used to accelerate plant growth or change plant state.",
"tags": ["Ingredient, plant growth booster"],
"recipe": ["Place a bone anywhere to get 3 bone meal; bone block gives 9."]


"item_name": "Shears",
"description": "Crafted from 2 iron ingots. Used for:
- Fast breaking of wool, cobwebs, leaves, grass, vines, kelp, glow lichen, and hanging roots.
- Shearing sheep to obtain wool non-lethally.
- Harvesting honeycomb from beehives without harming bees (if smoke is used).
- Carving pumpkins and snow golems.
- Transforming mooshrooms back into cows.
- Removing mushrooms from bogged mobs (drops random mushroom).",
"tags": ["Shearing wool, fast block breaking"],
"recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 4 and 8."]


"item_name": "Name Tag",
"description": "Cannot be crafted. Found in dungeon/mineshaft chests, fishing treasure, or via librarian trades.
Rename using an anvil (costs 1 XP), then right-click a mob to assign name. Named mobs do not despawn (except Wandering Traders). Shows name in death messages. Cannot be used on Ender Dragon. Name disappears from Wither after logout.",
"tags": ["Assign mob name"],
"recipe": ["None"]


"item_name": "Lead",
"description": "Crafted from string and a slimeball. Found in Woodland Mansions, Ancient Cities, trail ruins, or from Wandering Traders and llamas.
Use on a valid mob or boat to tether it. Can also attach to fences or other mobs while sneaking.",
"tags": ["Tether mobs with lead"],
"recipe": ["Place string in slots 3 4 7 8 and slimeball in 5."]


"item_name": "Brush",
"description": "Crafted from feather, copper ingot, and stick.
Used to excavate Suspicious Sand or Gravel to uncover hidden items (block becomes normal sand/gravel). In ocean ruins, 6.7% chance to find a Sniffer Egg.
Also used on Armadillos to obtain armor shards (consumes 16 durability, max 4 uses).",
"tags": ["Excavate hidden items"],
"recipe": ["Place stick in slot 2, copper ingot in 5, feather in 8."]


"item_name": "Bundle",
"description": "Crafted using leather and string, or found in villages.
It is used for inventory organization, capable of holding items of any type as long as the total fits within one stack. In the inventory UI, click and hold an item, then left-click on the bundle to store the item inside; or hold the bundle and left-click the item. Stored items can be viewed via the bundle's tooltip.
There are two ways to retrieve items from a bundle: In the inventory UI, click on the bundle and use the scroll wheel to select an item, then right-click to retrieve it; or right-click while holding the bundle to toss out the contents in reverse order toward the direction you're facing.",
"tags": ["Inventory Management"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place string in slot 8 of the crafting grid, and leather in slot 5."]
    

"item_name": "Compass",
"description": "Crafted using 4 iron ingots and redstone dust.
Points to the player's initial spawn point and can be viewed when held or in the inventory. It doesn't work properly in the Nether or End, spinning randomly.
Right-clicking on a Lodestone sets the compass to point to that Lodestone, allowing proper use in the Nether and End. If the Lodestone is destroyed or is in another dimension, the compass spins randomly.",
"tags": ["Points to Initial Spawn Point"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place iron ingots in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8; redstone dust in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Recovery Compass",
"description": "Crafted with 8 Echo Shards and a compass.
Points to the player's last death location. If the player has not died or the location is in another dimension, it spins randomly. Hence, it's not useful in Hardcore Mode where you only die once.",
"tags": ["Points to Last Death Location"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place Echo Shards in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9; compass in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Clock",
"description": "Crafted with 4 gold ingots and redstone dust.
When held or viewed in inventory, it shows the time based on the position of the sun or moon, not numerically. In the End or Nether, it does not work correctly and shakes wildly.",
"tags": ["Time Display"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place gold ingots in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8; redstone dust in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Spyglass",
"description": "Crafted with 2 copper ingots and an amethyst shard.
Right-click to zoom in while holding the button, reducing the field of view (FOV) to 1⁄10 while focusing on a point. With the default FOV of 70, this means zoom becomes 7. FOV can be adjusted from 30 to 110, so zoom ranges from 3 to 11 accordingly.
As with a real spyglass, the outer field of vision darkens, and light reflections are simulated. Pressing F1 disables this visual effect. Movement slows down while using it, like drawing a bow.",
"tags": ["Zoom on Distant Locations"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place amethyst shard in slot 8, copper ingots in slots 2 and 5."]


"item_name": "Map",
"description": "Crafted with 8 paper and a compass.
Initially creates an Empty Map. Right-click while holding it to convert it into a normal Map that records areas. The recorded location is not always centered; instead, predefined world regions determine mapping boundaries.
Unexpanded maps show an area of 128x128 blocks, with one dot representing one block. Color depends on block type. Maps automatically update when held. Expanded maps determine dot color based on block ratio and show brightness with 3 levels depending on terrain height. Water appears darker the deeper it is.",
"tags": ["Terrain Recording"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place paper in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9; compass in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Book and Quill",
"description": "Crafted with a book, feather, and ink sac.
Allows you to write text similar to a sign. Each page holds 14 lines with 25 characters per line, or 114 pixels. Java Edition allows up to 100 pages, Bedrock Edition allows 50. You can copy-paste content from outside the game within the character limit. In single-player Java Edition, the world pauses while writing.
Clicking 'Done' closes the book, while 'Sign' finalizes it and lets you enter a title. After signing, it becomes a Written Book that can no longer be edited. The icon has an enchanted shimmering effect.",
"tags": ["Write and Read Content"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place book in slot 7, feather in slot 8, ink sac in slot 4."]


"item_name": "Eye of Ender",
"description": "Crafted using an Ender Pearl and Blaze Powder.
When used, it flies about 12 blocks toward the nearest stronghold, leaving a purple trail, then either falls to the ground (80% chance) or breaks (20%). It flies higher if the stronghold is far, and when near, it flies more precisely, eventually going underground when very close. In Java Edition, it leads to the spiral staircase of the stronghold.",
"tags": ["Stronghold Tracking, End Portal Activation"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place Ender Pearl in slot 7, Blaze Powder in slot 8."]


"item_name": "Elytra",
"description": "Only found in item frames inside End Ships.
Equipped in the chestplate slot, it replaces armor protection. Appears as bluish-gray insect wings, or uses the player's cape texture if enabled.
While in midair, pressing jump opens the wings and activates gliding. Turning is done by changing view direction. Looking down accelerates descent; looking up increases altitude until slowing down. Sharp turns also reduce speed. Each second of gliding uses durability.",
"tags": ["Gliding"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["None"],


"item_name": "Firework Rocket",
"description": "Crafted with paper, gunpowder, and optionally firework stars.
Add up to 3 gunpowder: 1 gunpowder flies 8–20 blocks, 2 for 18–34 blocks, 3 for 32–52 blocks. Right-clicking fires it into the sky, or load into a crossbow and shoot.
Firework stars add explosion effects. The more stars used, the greater the damage (up to 7 with one, +2 per star). Rockets can be used for display or as projectiles.",
"tags": ["Fireworks, Propulsion, Projectile"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place paper in slot 7, gunpowder in slot 8."]


"item_name": "Saddle",
"description": "Crafted with 3 leather and 1 iron ingot (in future update), or found in chests, traded with Leatherworker Villagers, or fished as treasure. Can also be obtained by defeating Ravagers or Striders.
Allows riding of horses, donkeys, mules, camels, pigs, and striders. Horses can be mounted without a saddle but can't be controlled until saddled. Pigs and striders require saddles and a carrot/warped fungus on a stick for control.",
"tags": ["Mounting Certain Mobs"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place leather in slots 4, 6, and 8; iron ingot in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Carrot · Warped Fungus on a Stick",
"description": "Crafted with a fishing rod and either a carrot or warped fungus. The fishing rod's durability or enchantments do not affect crafting.
The carrot version lures pigs; the warped fungus version lures striders. With a saddle equipped, the ridden mob moves toward the direction the player is facing.",
"tags": ["Mob Lure and Control"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place fishing rod in slot 7, carrot or warped fungus in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Boat · Raft",
"description": "Crafted with 5 Overworld wooden planks. Cannot be made with Crimson or Warped planks, and all planks used must be of the same type—no mixing allowed.
Functions as a boat for fast travel on water, but unlike minecarts, it can also be placed on land. Can be destroyed after multiple hits, and in Java Edition, can be broken in one hit with a weapon or tool dealing 4 or more damage.
Players can ride by right-clicking the boat, and sneak to dismount. While riding, pressing left or right rotates the boat. When dismounting, players dismount in the direction they are facing. If facing vertically, players dismount in front of the boat. The game tries to place the player on land, if possible, rather than in water.",
"tags": ["Fast water travel"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place wooden planks in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 of the crafting grid."]


"item_name": "Ender Pearl",
"description": "Obtained by killing Endermen, trading with Cleric Villagers or Piglins, or found in Stronghold chests.
Can be thrown—if it hits a block or entity, the thrower takes 5 fall damage and teleports to the impact location. There's a 5% chance an Endermite will spawn where it lands. Has a 1-second cooldown between uses. Fall damage from using an Ender Pearl can be mitigated with Protection or Feather Falling enchantments. While in the air, the thrown pearl keeps the chunk loaded until it disappears.",
"tags": ["Teleportation, Crafting Material"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["None"]


"item_name": "Goat Horn",
"description": "Obtained when a goat rams into logs, stone, packed ice, iron ore, copper ore, or emerald ore, or found in Pillager Outpost chests.
There are 8 types of goat horns, each playing a unique sound when used. The sound can be heard from far away. All goat horns enter a brief cooldown after use, so they cannot be spammed.",
"tags": ["Sound Playing"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["None"]


"item_name": "Music Disc",
"description": "Various types exist, each with its own appearance and music. When inserted into a jukebox, it emits a Redstone comparator signal, with signal strength depending on the disc.",
"tags": ["Music Playback"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["None"]


"item_name": "Sword",
"description": "A melee weapon used to deal fast, high damage to enemies, and useful for breaking certain natural blocks quickly. Made from 2 material units and 1 stick. Netherite swords are crafted by combining a Netherite upgrade smithing template, a diamond sword, and a Netherite ingot at a smithing table.
Can quickly break certain blocks like leaves, bamboo, vines, hanging leaves, glow lichen, chorus plants/flowers, cocoa, melons, pumpkins, and cobwebs. However, it's slower than the optimal tool for most blocks except bamboo and uses 2x durability when breaking blocks.
Attack damage and durability by material: Wood (4/59), Stone (5/131), Iron (6/250), Gold (4/32), Diamond (7/1562), Netherite (8/2031).",
"tags": ["Melee Combat"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place material in slots 5 and 8; stick in slot 2."]


"item_name": "Trident",
"description": "Obtained by killing Drowned mobs holding one, or rarely from chests. The drop chance is low—around 0.53125% to 0.71875% with Looting. In Bedrock Edition, drop rates are higher.
Functions as a melee weapon and can be thrown with right-click. If it hits an entity, it deals damage and bounces off nearby; if it hits a block, it sticks. Unlike arrows, tridents are not hindered by water, making them the only effective underwater ranged weapon. Thrown tridents must be retrieved manually and can be lost if they fall into the void. Only the thrower can pick up their trident.",
"tags": ["Melee Combat, Thrown Weapon"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["None"]


"item_name": "Mace",
"description": "Crafted from a Heavy Core and Breeze Rod. Can be repaired with Breeze Rods.
Acts like a slow iron sword without sweep, but deals extra damage if attacking while falling. If the hit lands before hitting the ground, fall damage is negated, and nearby mobs receive knockback.",
"tags": ["Melee Combat, Falling Attack"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place Heavy Core in slot 8; Breeze Rod in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Bow",
"description": "Crafted from 3 sticks and 3 strings. Rare drop from Skeletons, Strays, or Vexes, and can be traded with Fletcher Villagers or found via fishing.
When holding a bow and arrows in inventory, right-click to draw. Releasing the click shoots the arrow. If released within 1 second, power, range, and knockback vary depending on charge time.",
"tags": ["Ranged Combat"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place string in slots 3, 6, and 9; sticks in slots 2, 4, and 8."]


"item_name": "Crossbow",
"description": "Crafted from 3 sticks, 2 strings, 1 iron ingot, and 1 tripwire hook. Dropped by Pillagers or Piglins, or found in Outpost or Bastion chests.
Unlike bows, once fully drawn, it stays loaded and ready to fire. The player can move freely while it’s loaded.",
"tags": ["Ranged Combat"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place sticks in slots 2, 7, and 9; string in slots 4 and 6; iron ingot in slot 8; tripwire hook in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Helmet · Cap",
"description": "Crafted from 5 armor material units. Chainmail armor must be obtained through trading or mob drops. Netherite helmets are crafted by combining a Netherite upgrade smithing template, a diamond helmet, and a Netherite ingot at a smithing table.
Durability by material: Leather (55), Iron (165), Gold (77), Diamond (363), Netherite (407).",
"tags": ["Worn on Head"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place material in slots 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9."]


"item_name": "Turtle Shell",
"description": "Crafted from 5 scutes.
Same stats as an iron helmet, but grants the Water Breathing status effect, allowing 10 extra seconds of air underwater. Also used to brew the Potion of the Turtle Master.",
"tags": ["Worn on Head"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place scutes in slots 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9."]


"item_name": "Chestplate",
"description": "Crafted with 8 armor material units. Netherite chestplates are crafted with a smithing template, diamond chestplate, and Netherite ingot.
Durability by material: Leather (80), Iron (240), Gold (112), Diamond (528), Netherite (592).",
"tags": ["Worn on Chest"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place material in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9."]


"item_name": "Leggings",
"description": "Crafted with 7 armor material units. Netherite leggings are crafted with a smithing template, diamond leggings, and Netherite ingot.
Durability by material: Leather (75), Iron (225), Gold (105), Diamond (495), Netherite (555).",
"tags": ["Worn on Legs"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place material in slots 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9."]


"item_name": "Boots",
"description": "Crafted with 4 armor material units. Netherite boots are crafted with a smithing template, diamond boots, and Netherite ingot.",
"tags": ["Worn on Feet"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place material in slots 1, 3, 4, and 6."]


"item_name": "Shield",
"description": "Crafted with 6 wooden planks and 1 iron ingot. Can also be obtained via trading with Armorer Villagers.
In Java Edition, equip in either hand and right-click to block. In Bedrock Edition, equip in the off-hand (default: left hand) and sneak to block. While blocking, movement is slowed and it blocks attacks in a 90-degree forward arc.",
"tags": ["Blocks Enemy Attacks"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place planks in slots 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9; iron ingot in slot 8."]


"item_name": "Horse Armor",
"description": "Leather Horse Armor can be crafted from leather or obtained via trade with Leatherworker Villagers. Other types of horse armor have no crafting recipes and can only be found in structure chests.",
"tags": ["Horse Protection"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Only leather version is craftable—place leather in slots 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9."]


"item_name": "Wolf Armor",
"description": "Crafted with 6 Armadillo Scutes.
Can be equipped on a tamed wolf, removed with shears, and dyed by combining with dye.",
"tags": ["Wolf Protection"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place Armadillo Scutes in slots 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7."]


"item_name": "Totem of Undying",
"description": "Guaranteed drop from Evokers when killed.
If held when the player dies, the Totem activates with a bang and particle effect, spinning in front of the player before vanishing. It restores 1 HP and grants Absorption II (5s), Regeneration II (45s), and Fire Resistance (40s), while removing all other effects. The totem is consumed after use.",
"tags": ["Prevents Death Once"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["None"]


"item_name": "Wind Charge",
"description": "Obtained by dismantling a Breeze Rod to get 4 Wind Charges.
When used, it launches a projectile similar to the one fired by a Breeze. On impact, it creates a small wind burst that deals 2 damage and knocks back or lifts nearby entities. Players are also affected by the wind but take no damage, and landing does not cause damage unless from a lower height.",
"tags": ["Knockback"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place a Breeze Rod anywhere in the crafting grid."]


"item_name": "Arrow",
"description": "Crafted from flint, a stick, and a feather. Also dropped by Skeletons and Strays, obtained via Villager trades, or found in structure chests.
Required for use with bows, crossbows, or dispensers—cannot be used alone. Arrow damage varies depending on the weapon or mob shooting it.
When an arrow hits a wooden button, pressure plate, tripwire string, or target block, it emits a Redstone signal. If shot through fire or lava or with a Flame-enchanted bow, it becomes a flaming arrow. Flaming arrows ignite mobs, TNT, or unlit campfires.",
"tags": ["Ammunition for Bows and Crossbows"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place flint in slot 8, stick in slot 5, and feather in slot 2."]


"item_name": "Spectral Arrow",
"description": "Crafted with 4 Glowstone Dust and an arrow. Java Edition only. Can also be obtained via Piglin trade or in Bastion chests.
Applies the Glowing effect for 10 seconds on hit targets, making them visible even behind blocks.",
"tags": ["Applies Glowing Effect"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place Glowstone Dust in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8; arrow in slot 5."]


"item_name": "Tipped Arrow",
"description": "Crafted from 8 arrows and 1 Lingering Potion. Can also be traded from Fletchers. In Bedrock Edition, can be made by dipping arrows into a potion-filled cauldron.
Applies the potion effect in addition to normal arrow damage. Even beneficial effects still deal damage. Since only the higher of arrow or potion damage applies (due to invincibility frames), they are typically used with unenchanted crossbows or dispensers for higher damage output.",
"tags": ["Applies Status Effects"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place potion in slot 5; arrows in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9."]


"item_name": "Wool",
"description": "Dropped when a sheep with wool is killed or sheared. Found in villages and other structures. Also craftable from 4 string.
White wool can be dyed by combining with dyes, or dyeing the sheep directly.
Placed wool blocks block Sculk vibrations and do not trigger vibrations when placed, broken, or dropped. Likely because of this, white wool is included in the Redstone tab.",
"tags": ["Building, Material"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place string in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5. Combine wool with dye in the crafting grid to get dyed wool."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Carpet",
"description": "Crafted from 2 wool blocks.
Has a very low height (1⁄16 block) and is non-solid, preventing mob spawning. Can only be placed on full blocks, and breaks if its supporting block is removed. Placing over tall grass or ferns destroys them.
Does not block light and is useful for concealing floor lighting.
Players can walk on carpets, but mob pathfinding struggles with them due to their unusual hitboxes. For example, mobs can't jump over fences or walls with carpets on top, even though players can. When carpets are placed on plants, mobs often can't reach them or act erratically.",
"tags": ["Building, Material"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place two wool blocks of the same color in slots 1 and 2; or place a carpet with dye to recolor."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Terracotta",
"description": "Made by smelting clay in a furnace. Stained Terracotta is made by combining terracotta with dye. Naturally generated in badlands biomes (regular, red, orange, yellow, brown, white, light gray) and found in some structures.",
"tags": ["Building, Material"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Smelt clay to make terracotta. Combine dye in slot 5 with terracotta in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 for stained terracotta."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Concrete",
"description": "Created when placed Concrete Powder touches water. Only full water blocks work—rain does not convert powder to concrete.
To craft quickly, hold powder in one hand and a pickaxe in the other while standing near water, then alternate both mouse buttons to place and mine simultaneously. Enchantments or beacon effects can help. Alternatively, build structures with powder and pour water over them. Avoid making tall stacks of powder over water and destroying the base—it may overload the game.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place Concrete Powder and then apply water."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Concrete Powder",
"description": "Crafted from 4 sand, 4 gravel, and dye.
Behaves like sand and gravel—affected by gravity. Converts to concrete upon contact with water.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place dye in slot 7, sand in slots 4, 5, 8, and 9, and gravel in slots 1, 2, 3, and 6."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Glazed Terracotta",
"description": "Made by smelting stained terracotta in a furnace.
Glazed terracotta can be placed in various directions, and its pattern changes accordingly. When placed correctly in a 2×2 or larger area with the same color, it forms a completed design. Thanks to its unique patterns, it can be used in various combinations for decorative purposes. It is the only block that can be pushed by pistons but cannot be pulled, even with sticky pistons or slime blocks.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Smelt stained terracotta in a furnace."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Glass",
"description": "Made by smelting sand in a furnace. Stained glass is made by combining 8 glass blocks with dye.
Allows light to pass through, so undead mobs do not burn under sunlight when under glass. However, hostile mobs cannot detect players through glass. Rain is blocked, but lightning is not, meaning a wooden house under a glass roof can catch fire during thunderstorms. 
Mobs do not spawn on glass. It does not obstruct Redstone wiring, and chests can still open under glass. Beacon beams passing through stained glass change to the color of the glass.
Only breakable with a Silk Touch-enchanted tool.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Smelt sand in a furnace. To make stained glass, place 8 glass in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9; dye in slot 5."],
"Optimal Tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Tinted Glass",
"description": "Crafted with 4 amethyst shards and glass.
Unlike regular glass, it blocks light, making enclosed interiors appear completely dark. Undead mobs under a tinted glass roof won’t burn.
Can be obtained without Silk Touch—even breaking it by hand drops the item.",
"tags": ["Light Blocking"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place amethyst shards in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8; glass in slot 5."],
"Optimal Tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Glass Pane",
"description": "Made from glass or stained glass. Can also be dyed to create stained glass panes.
Acts like iron bars—very thin, ideal for windows. Efficient in quantity when crafted. Cannot be placed horizontally. Light gray panes are hard to distinguish in inventory due to their color. Used in puzzle maps for this reason.
Only breakable with a Silk Touch tool.
Called 'Pane Glass' in Bedrock Edition.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place glass in slots 1 through 6. To make stained panes, place glass panes in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9; dye in slot 5."],
"Optimal Tool": ["None"]


"item_name": "Grass Block",
"description": "Grass blocks make up the surface layer in most Overworld biomes. The grass color varies by biome and gradually changes at biome borders. Snow cover turns the grass white.
If a grass block receives light level 9+, and there's a dirt block within 3x5x3 receiving light level 4+, that dirt will turn into grass. Grass becomes dirt if covered with opaque blocks, interacted with by sheep, or broken without Silk Touch.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["None"],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Dirt Path",
"description": "Found in all Overworld biomes.
Dirt makes up shallow layers of surface terrain in most biomes and may generate in veins of 1–33 with 10 attempts per chunk.
Coarse Dirt is crafted from dirt and gravel or found naturally in some biomes. Tilling it turns it into dirt.
Rooted Dirt spawns under azalea trees. Applying bone meal generates hanging roots underneath. Tilling yields hanging roots and dirt.
All types turn into mud when interacted with using a water bottle.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Right-click dirt with a shovel."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Dirt",
"description": "Dirt makes up shallow layers of surface terrain in most biomes and may generate in veins of 1–33 with 10 attempts per chunk.
Coarse Dirt is crafted from dirt and gravel or found naturally. Tilling turns it into dirt.
Rooted Dirt spawns under azalea trees. Bone meal creates hanging roots underneath. Tilling yields roots and dirt.
All can become mud when interacted with using a water bottle.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place dirt in slots 5 and 7; gravel in slots 4 and 8 to make coarse dirt."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Farmland",
"description": "Created by right-clicking dirt or grass blocks with a hoe. Coarse or rooted dirt becomes dirt upon tilling, so must be tilled again. Podzol and mycelium cannot be tilled—must be broken or turned into dirt paths first.
Basic block for farming: plant seeds, potatoes, carrots, beets, pumpkin seeds, and melon seeds on it.
Reverts to dirt under certain conditions. Crops drop as items if farmland reverts.",
"tags": ["Farming"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Right-click dirt with a hoe."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Mud",
"description": "Found on the ground in mangrove swamps. Can also be created by interacting with dirt/coarse/rooted dirt using a water bottle.
Acts as a full block for Redstone but has a 2px lower hitbox like soul sand. Can't walk up half slabs. Items on top can be picked up by hoppers. 
If placed on top of a pointed dripstone under an opaque block, it eventually turns into clay.",
"tags": ["Farming"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Use a water bottle on dirt/coarse dirt/rooted dirt."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Clay",
"description": "Crafted from clay balls or made by drying mud over pointed dripstone. Found mostly at the bottom of river biomes, or in lush caves. Useful when trading with Mason Villagers. Small drip leaves can be placed on it without water.
Breaking without Silk Touch yields clay balls. Using Silk Touch keeps it intact. No real gain/loss beyond inventory space.",
"tags": ["Material, Villager Trading"],
"Crafting Recipe": ["Place clay balls in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5; or place mud above pointed dripstone."],
"Optimal Tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Gravel",
"description": "Found throughout the Overworld and the Nether. Commonly seen along coastlines and also generated in significant quantities underground.
When broken, it has a 10% chance to drop flint instead of gravel. Using a tool enchanted with Fortune increases this chance to 16% at Fortune I, 25% at Fortune II, and at Fortune III it becomes 100%. Conversely, to always obtain gravel, use a tool enchanted with Silk Touch.",
"tags": ["Material", "Flint Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Sand",
"description": "A block found in the Overworld; also sold by the Wandering Trader.
Sand forms the surface of beaches, riverbanks, and desert biomes, usually in layers four blocks high, with sandstone supporting it underneath.
Red Sand generates on the surface of Badlands biomes, likewise in layers four blocks high, supported below by orange terracotta.
Both types can be crafted into their matching-colored sandstone, used as a component for TNT, and smelted in a furnace to make glass. Only regular sand is used to craft concrete powder.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Ice",
"description": "Found in snowy biomes, where water source blocks at locations with no obstructing blocks above and a temperature of 0.15 or below have a chance to freeze during random ticks. Nearby ice or snow increases this probability.
Any non-sun light level of 12 or higher will melt ice into water if there is a block or water underneath; in the Nether, however, melted ice does not produce water.
Moving over this block causes slipping, and any acceleration boosts increase travel speed.
As a non-solid-block, light passes through. To collect ice intact as an item, use a tool enchanted with Silk Touch.
Nine ice blocks can be crafted into Packed Ice, and nine Packed Ice blocks can be crafted into Blue Ice.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place ice in all nine slots of the crafting grid to make Packed Ice; place Packed Ice in all nine slots to make Blue Ice."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Snow",
"description": "Snow Blocks can be crafted from snowballs or generated naturally in snowy and cold biomes, as well as in snowy villages and igloos.
When broken normally, they yield snowballs; to obtain the block itself, use a Silk Touch-enchanted shovel. Placing two Snow Blocks vertically and topping them with a carved pumpkin or jack o’lantern spawns a Snow Golem.
Unlike in reality, Snow Blocks do not burn or melt from temperature.
Snow (the layer) forms from precipitation in areas with light level 9 or below, stacking atop a full block; Snow Golems also generate snow under their feet. Snow disappears at light level 12 or above or when within range of fire.
Breaking snow layers drops nothing unless using a shovel, which instantly breaks the layer and drops one snowball.
In Java Edition, only one layer falls per snowfall (modifiable via game rules); in Bedrock Edition, up to eight layers can accumulate. Eight layers broken with a Silk Touch shovel yield a Snow Block.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place snowballs in slots 1, 2, 4, 5 of the crafting grid to make a Snow Block; place Snow Blocks in slots 1, 2, 3 to make snow layers."],
"optimal_tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Moss Block · Carpet",
"description": "Found in lush cave biomes and occasionally inside shipwreck chests; also sold by the Wandering Trader.
On Moss Blocks, most plants can be planted, and small dripleaf can even be placed over water.
Applying bone meal to a Moss Block transforms adjacent dirt- and stone-type blocks into Moss Blocks, and various plants will grow on top.
Placing a Sniffer egg on a Moss Block causes it to hatch twice as fast—10 minutes instead of 20.
Moss Carpet is crafted from Moss Blocks and also generates in lush caves and mangrove swamps. It shares most properties with regular carpets but can be composted.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place a Moss Block in slot 1 and slot 2 of the crafting grid to make Moss Carpet."],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Calcite",
"description": "Found forming the middle section of Amethyst Geodes in the Overworld. Also found in the Dripstone Peaks biome.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Dripstone",
"description": "A block forming the Dripstone Caves biome; can also generate in small pockets in regular caves.
Pointed Dripstone breaks instantly when struck with a trident. When placed on the underside of a block, it forms stalactites, and below a height of 11 blocks, it drips water occasionally.
If there is a water or lava source block above a stalactite-supporting block and a cauldron beneath, the cauldron will slowly fill with the dripping liquid. Lava droplets count as lava particles, and if mud is placed above, it will convert to clay over time.
Breaking the supporting block or the middle of a stalactite turns the segments below into falling blocks that deal damage upon hitting mobs based on fall distance, up to a maximum of 40 damage. Wearing a helmet reduces this damage by 75% but doubles helmet durability loss.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Pointed Dripstone in slots 1, 2, 4, 5 of the crafting grid to make a Dripstone Block."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Magma Block",
"description": "Found in the Overworld in underground aquifers, ocean ravines, and ocean ruins, and throughout the Nether. In the Nether, it generates in basalt deltas and in veins of up to 160 blocks between Y=27 and Y=36. Also found in ruined portals. Can be crafted from 4 Magma Cream.
Once lit like Netherrack, it stays on fire indefinitely unless extinguished.
Most mobs standing on a Magma Block take 1 fire damage per second. Thin blocks like carpets or snow layers do not mitigate this, but sneaking, having Fire Resistance, or wearing Frost Walker–enchanted boots prevents damage. Though a source of fire damage, the block itself does not burn, and only mobs take damage—zombified piglins are immune due to fire immunity.
If a water source is above a Magma Block underwater, a bubble column forms, creating a water-breathing environment. Boats placed on these will sink eventually and cannot be recovered once submerged.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Magma Cream in slots 1, 2, 4, 5 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Obsidian",
"description": "Generated in various ways across all dimensions when lava source blocks meet water.
The standard by which the hardest obtainable block is measured; requires at least a Diamond Pickaxe to drop as an item. Its blast resistance is so high that TNT cannot break it under normal conditions; only the Wither’s skull explosions or its block destruction phase can destroy it. Along with Bedrock, End Stone, and Iron Bars, it cannot be destroyed by the Ender Dragon and cannot be moved by pistons.
Used to construct Nether Portals.
In reality, volcanic glass is fragile, but in Minecraft it serves as a robust block with high hardness and blast resistance.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Diamond Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Crying Obsidian",
"description": "Obtained via bartering with Piglins, found in Bastion Remnant chests, and in Ruined Portals.
Shares most properties with Obsidian but cannot be used to craft Beacons, Enchantment Tables, or Nether Portals. Occasionally emits falling purple particles.
Originally planned during Beta to be used as a Respawn Anchor (shown in unused textures from Beta 1.3–1.5), it was repurposed in Java Edition 1.16 as the material for the Respawn Anchor. The original Beta textures are available in the ‘Programmer Art’ official resource pack.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Diamond Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Netherrack",
"description": "A block that makes up most of the Nether dimension; also found in ruined portal structures in the Overworld.
It has lower hardness than stone, so it breaks relatively quickly by hand and even faster with an iron pickaxe, though tools wear down more quickly. Only pickaxes drop the block; other tools or bare hands yield nothing.
Though it doesn’t burn away, once set on fire it will burn indefinitely unless doused or obstructed by water.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Nylium",
"description": "Blocks that form the surface of Crimson Forest and Warped Forest biomes in the Nether.
Like grass, mycelium, and podzol in the Overworld, Nylium will drop Netherrack if broken without Silk Touch. Applying bone meal on Nylium grows its biome-specific vegetation; using bone meal on adjacent Netherrack converts it to Nylium. Endermen can pick up Nylium, allowing collection without Silk Touch—especially in Warped Forests where Endermen frequently carry it. Unlike grass, snow accumulating on Nylium in the Overworld converts it back to Netherrack, so caution is needed when growing Nether plants in cold regions.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Soul Sand · Soul Soil",
"description": "Soul Sand generates in Soul Sand Valleys or as four-block-deep layers under Y=65 in Nether Wastes, and in veins of 0–23 blocks at Y=0–31 in all Nether biomes.
Soul Sand slows entities walking on it, unless wearing Soul Speed–enchanted boots (which do slow durability). It is a full block but counts as 7/8 height, so feet sink slightly, preventing stepping up half-blocks. Touching lava adjacent to Soul Sand causes fire damage and ignition. Falling blocks on Soul Sand drop as items. Soul Soil, by contrast, is full height, does not slow movement, but can still be accelerated by Soul Speed boots. When lava touches Blue Ice above Soul Soil, basalt forms.
Both can craft Soul Campfires and Soul Torches, and are used in Wither summoning structures. Like Netherrack, they burn indefinitely when lit, dealing 'soul fire' damage of 4 per second.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Shovel"]


"item_name": "Bone Block",
"description": "Crafted from bone meal or found in fossils and Nether fossils; can be broken back into bone meal.
When placed against another block’s side, it lies horizontally.
Though Overworld fossils generate bone blocks, they are more common in Nether Soul Sand Valleys, hence their placement between Soul Soil and Blackstone in the Creative inventory.",
"tags": ["Building", "Storage"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place bone meal in all nine crafting grid slots to make a Bone Block."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Glowstone",
"description": "Found in clusters on the ceilings of the Nether; can also be crafted from Glowstone Dust. Glowstone Dust drops 2–4 per block unless using Silk Touch.
It behaves like glass: mobs cannot spawn on it, and players do not suffocate if their heads occupy its space. It emits light and makes glass-like sounds when broken. Glowstone Dust is also dropped by witches and sold by Clerics or Wandering Traders.",
"tags": ["Building", "Light Source"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Glowstone Dust in slots 1, 2, 4, 5 of the crafting grid to craft Glowstone."],
"optimal_tool": [None]


"item_name": "Coal Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 1 Coal and 0–2 experience. Fortune increases the maximum drop by one per enchantment level.
Veins generated in the Caves & Cliffs Part II update are most common at Y=95 and are rarely exposed to air. In Bedrock Edition, mountain biomes have 20 additional generation attempts per chunk between Y=128 and Y=256. Overall distribution peaks at Y=45.
Deepslate Coal Ore rarely generates, but can occur when the lowest coal veins overlap the top layer of deepslate.",
"tags": ["Coal Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Iron Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 1 Raw Iron. Fortune increases the maximum drop by one per enchantment level.
Veins in the Part I and Part II updates generate most commonly at Y=255 and Y=15, respectively.
Additionally, rare large veins of Raw Iron mixed with tuff can generate below Y=0 in massive underground formations.",
"tags": ["Iron Ore Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Stone Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Copper Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 2–5 Raw Copper. Fortune doubles the maximum drop per level, yielding up to 20 with Fortune III (average ~7.7).
Most common at Y=47–48 across all Overworld biomes, with larger veins in Dripstone Cave biomes.
Rarely, massive copper ore veins mixed with granite can generate above Y=0, particularly in beach-type biomes.",
"tags": ["Copper Ore Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Stone Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Gold Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 1 Raw Gold. Fortune increases the maximum drop by one per enchantment level.
Most commonly found around Y=–16, seldom generating exposed. In Badlands biomes, there are 50 extra vein-generation attempts per chunk between Y=32 and Y=256, often creating exposed veins.
If a Piglin is nearby when you mine it, the Piglin will become aggressive toward the player.",
"tags": ["Gold Ore Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Iron Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Redstone Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 4–5 Redstone Dust and 1–5 experience. Fortune increases the maximum drop by one per enchantment level.
In the Part II update, Redstone Ore is more common at lower Y levels.
It emits light level 9 when clicked, updated by a block tick, or touched by a mob or non-sneaking player. This light persists until the next random block tick—on average about 68.27 seconds—and can be detected by an Observer.",
"tags": ["Redstone Dust Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Iron Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Emerald Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 1 Emerald and 2–5 experience. Fortune increases the maximum drop by one per enchantment level.
Generates in Windy Hills, Windy Forest, Windy Gravelly Hills, Plains, Forest, Snowy Slopes, Jagged Peaks, Frozen Peaks, and Stone Peaks biomes. Most common around Y=256, becoming rarer toward the edges.
Deepslate Emerald Ore can theoretically generate but is extremely rare due to limited biome availability and low distribution, making emeralds among the rarest items in Minecraft.",
"tags": ["Emerald Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Iron Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Lapis Lazuli Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 4–8 Lapis Lazuli and 2–5 experience. Fortune increases the maximum drop by 8 per enchantment level, yielding up to 36 with Fortune III (average ~14.3).
Most common around Y=–1 in Part I; in Part II it never generates exposed to air.",
"tags": ["Lapis Lazuli Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Stone Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Diamond Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 1 Diamond and 3–7 experience. Fortune increases the maximum drop by one per enchantment level.
Diamond ore generation attempts occur across multiple height ranges per chunk. In Part II, one attempt occurs per nine chunks. All attempts favor lower Y levels. Exposed veins are rare—never in Part III and only very rarely in Part II. Deepslate Diamond Ore only generates in deepslate regions.",
"tags": ["Diamond Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Iron Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Raw Ore Blocks",
"description": "Blocks crafted from their respective raw ores. Raw Iron and Raw Copper Blocks can also be found in massive underground veins generating below Y=0 and above Y=0, respectively.",
"tags": ["Building", "Storage"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Raw Iron, Raw Copper, and Raw Gold in all nine crafting grid slots."],
"optimal_tool": ["Iron/Copper: Stone Pickaxe or higher\nGold: Iron Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Nether Gold Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 2–6 Gold Nuggets. Fortune increases the maximum drop by 6 per enchantment level, yielding up to 24 with Fortune III (average ~8.8).
Generates by replacing Netherrack; basalt deltas have increased generation attempts due to lower Netherrack density.
Silk Touch allows collection of the block itself, which when smelted yields Gold Ingots rather than Nuggets. Fortune III yields an average of 8.8 nuggets—just below the nine needed for an ingot—making Silk Touch smelting slightly more convenient despite requiring a furnace.
Piglins within range will become hostile when you mine it.",
"tags": ["Gold Nugget Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Nether Quartz Ore",
"description": "When mined with an appropriate tool, drops 1 Nether Quartz and 2–5 experience. Fortune increases the maximum drop by one per enchantment level.
Nether Quartz Ore generates by replacing Netherrack; basalt deltas have increased generation attempts due to lower Netherrack density.
Although you receive fewer quartz, it is possible to collect the block itself with a Silk Touch–enchanted pickaxe and then smelt it in a furnace to yield 1 Nether Quartz per block.",
"tags": ["Nether Quartz Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Ancient Debris",
"description": "The block that yields Netherite Scrap when smelted. Does not burn in fire or lava once broken.
Unaffected by Fortune, as it drops the block itself. Smelting in a furnace produces Netherite Scrap.
Generates by replacing Netherrack, Blackstone (Java Edition), or Basalt (Java Edition). Does not generate exposed to air and has very high blast resistance, surviving most explosions.
Up to five pieces may generate per chunk (average 1.65), and ore veins can cross chunk borders, theoretically forming veins up to 20 blocks. Despite rumors, mining along chunk boundaries does not improve yield.
One of the few piston-movable blocks among those resistant to TNT—the defining feature of Netherite blocks.",
"tags": ["Netherite Scrap Processing"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Diamond Pickaxe or higher"]


"item_name": "Amethyst Block",
"description": "Forms the innermost layer of an Amethyst Geode. Crafted from Amethyst Shards.
All Amethyst family blocks share the unique chime sound; a bug causes both the chime and the block-breaking sound to play together when hit by a projectile.
In version 1.20, it gained the ability to resonate with Sculk sensors, allowing it to be used in redstone taps.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Amethyst Shards in slots 1, 2, 4, 5 of the crafting grid to craft an Amethyst Block."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Amethyst Cluster",
"description": "Budding Amethyst is the inner block with X-shaped cracks; on each random tick, it has a 20% chance to produce a budding Amethyst Bud on any unblocked face, including air or water. Cannot be obtained in Survival; cannot be moved by pistons.
Amethyst Buds grow from Budding Amethyst in stages: Small → Medium → Large → Cluster. Breaking Buds without Silk Touch drops nothing; Silk Touch picks them up intact.
An Amethyst Cluster is the final stage. Breaking it with a pickaxe yields 4 Amethyst Shards; other methods yield 2. Fortune increases the maximum drop by 4 per level, and Silk Touch collects the block itself.
Clusters and buds can be worn on the head via commands, appearing like a crown.",
"tags": ["Amethyst Shard Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Leaves",
"description": "The foliage blocks of trees.
Naturally generated leaves decay (break) if not within six blocks of a log when they receive a random tick; placed leaves do not decay. They emit leaf particles when breaking.
Leaves can be waterlogged; in Java Edition water does not flow out, though in Bedrock it does.
Never drop themselves; when broken they have a chance to drop saplings (5%, or 2.5% for jungle leaves) and sticks (2%). Oak leaves can drop apples (0.5%). Fortune increases these probabilities.
Mangrove leaves, when bone-mealed, grow propagules from their underside.
To harvest leaves as items, use shears or a Silk Touch tool. The fastest breaking tool is the hoe.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe", "Shears"]


"item_name": "Mangrove Roots",
"description": "A block representing the root portion of Mangrove trees.\nUnlike normal roots, Mangrove Roots are not a full solid block but act as one in Redstone circuits: you can place Redstone dust on top to transmit signals, and place them under rising Redstone wire to block it.\nMuddy Mangrove Roots are crafted from Mud and Mangrove Roots, and also replace Mud when a propagule’s roots grow into it. When placed on a side face, they lay horizontally.\nThey have no crafting use beyond decoration, but like leaves, they can hold water internally in Game Mechanics.\n(In Bedrock Edition they are called “Mangrove Roots” and “Muddy Mangrove Roots” separately.)",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Mud in slot 7 and Mangrove Roots in slot 8 of the crafting grid to make Muddy Mangrove Roots."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe (regular)", "Shovel (muddy)"]


"item_name": "Mushroom Stem · Block",
"description": "Blocks generated when Brown or Red Mushrooms are bone-mealed into their Giant form. Also naturally generate in Dark Forests and Mushroom Fields biomes.\nBreaking them normally drops 0–2 mushrooms of the same color (only for the Mushroom Block variant). To collect the block itself, use a tool with Silk Touch.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Fungus Block",
"description": "Fungus Blocks and Shroomlights form the caps of Crimson and Warped Fungi.\nNether Fungus Blocks are crafted from Nether Fungus, and unlike ore/metal blocks they cannot be deconstructed (intended behavior, MC-102253).\nThey are a byproduct of massive mycelium farming—growing mycelium yields plenty of fungus blocks, useful for bridging in the Nether. Shroomlights serve as a Glowstone alternative.",
"tags": ["Building", "Light Source"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Nether Fungus in all nine slots of the crafting grid to craft a Fungus Block."],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Saplings",
"description": "Can be obtained by breaking leaves, from structure chests, or purchased from Wandering Traders.\nPlant on dirt, meet growth conditions, and wait (or apply bone meal) while remaining within range. Specific requirements:\n\nOak Sapling\n• Needs ≥5 blocks vertical and 3×3 horizontal space. If flowers within 2 blocks, 5% chance to generate a Bee Nest.\n\nSpruce Sapling\n• Needs ≥5 blocks vertical and 3×3 horizontal. Four placed in 2×2 require ≥11 vertical and 6×6 horizontal; grows with vines and converts surrounding dirt, grass, moss to podzol.\n\nBirch Sapling\n• Needs ≥5 blocks vertical and 3×3 horizontal. Bone meal grows to reachable height only. If flowers within 2 blocks, 5% chance for a Bee Nest.\n\nJungle Sapling\n• Needs ≥5 blocks vertical and 3×3 horizontal. Four in 2×2 require ≥11 vertical and 6×6; grows with vines.\n\nAcacia Sapling\n• Needs ≥6 blocks vertical and 5×5 horizontal; grows with a curved trunk.\n\nDark Oak & Pale Oak Saplings\n• Needs ≥7 blocks vertical and 6×6 horizontal; only grows from a 2×2 placement.\n\nMangrove Propagule\n• Grows downward roots; must harvest fully to obtain. Can be planted underwater. Can host bees for pollination. Requires ≥6 blocks vertical and 5×5 horizontal; sends roots out 5 blocks or it won’t grow, producing vines and moss carpet. If flowers within 2 blocks, 5% chance for a Bee Nest.\n\nCherry Sapling\n• Needs ≥8 blocks vertical and 5×5 horizontal. Branches split randomly 1–3 ways. Bees can pollinate its flowers but not the sapling itself. If flowers within 2 blocks, 5% chance for a Bee Nest.",
"tags": ["Wood Acquisition", "Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Azalea",
"description": "Not labeled as a sapling but grows into an Azalea tree under the same conditions as other saplings. Found in Lush Caves biomes.\nDoes not grow naturally—requires bone meal, with a higher success rate than other saplings. When grown, yields Oak logs, Azalea leaves, and Flowering Azalea leaves; the soil transforms into Rooted Dirt.\nHas a variant Flowering Azalea that bees can pollinate.\n(In Bedrock Edition this block is called “Ironwood”.)",
"tags": ["Wood Acquisition", "Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Mushrooms · Fungus",
"description": "Mushrooms can generate in the Overworld at light levels of 12 or below, with a 12.5% chance for Red Mushrooms and 25% for Brown Mushrooms. Therefore, they are found in Dark Forests, caves, swamps, old-growth taiga, Mushroom Fields, and throughout the Nether.\nThey cannot be placed under open sky at light level 13 or above—they pop off shortly after placement. On Mycelium and Podzol, sky/light restrictions are ignored. Mushrooms on those blocks can be grown to giant mushrooms with Bone Meal, provided there is a 9×7×7 clear space; any block in the space of a mushroom block is replaced during growth.\nMushrooms also spread: each random tick there is a 1% chance to spread if there are six or fewer mushrooms in a 9×9×3 area. Spread attempts place a new mushroom in a 3×3×3 area at the same height (50% chance) or a different height (35% chance). Fungus is found in the Nether’s Crimson and Warped Forests and acts as the sapling for huge fungi. It can be placed on Dirt, Grass Block, Coarse Dirt, Mycelium, Nylium, Soul Soil, and Farmland. To grow into a huge fungus, Bone Meal must be applied on the corresponding Nylium. Fossilized fungus does not spread but Bone Mealing Nylium spawns one matching fungus.\nCrimson Fungus can be bred with Hoglins and accelerates their growth; Warped Fungus placed on the ground or in a pot repels Hoglins within 7 blocks and serves as Strider food, breeding and accelerating Strider offspring growth.",
"tags": ["Wood Acquisition", "Mushroom Farming", "Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": [None]


"item_name": "Grass",
"description": "A plant-type block found throughout the Overworld. It has no collision box and does not impede movement.\nShort Grass changes color by biome and can be harvested with Shears. Applying Bone Meal to a Grass Block spawns Grass.\nTall Grass can be placed by Bone Mealing existing Short Grass; shearing Tall Grass yields two Short Grass blocks. Otherwise, only Savannah village chest loot provides Tall Grass items.\nReplacing Grass with another block removes it, and breaking it has a chance to drop Wheat Seeds. Grass can only be placed on Grass Blocks, Podzol, Mycelium, Dirt, Coarse Dirt, Rooted Dirt, Mud, Moss Block, Azalea Moss Block, and Muddy Mangrove Roots—same as Ferns and Dead Bushes.\n(In Bedrock Edition these are called “Short Grass” and “Tall Grass.”)",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Nether Grass",
"description": "Natural vegetation found in the Nether’s Crimson and Warped Forests. It can also be created by Bone Mealing Nylium.\nCrimson Roots and Warped Roots drop themselves when broken by hand; Nether Sprouts require Shears to drop as items. Used for pot decoration or composting.\n(In Bedrock Edition: Crimson Roots = “Crimson Roots”, Nether Sprouts = “Warped Sprouts.”)",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": [None]


"item_name": "Fern",
"description": "Occurs in Taiga, Old-Growth Taiga, Snowy Taiga, Jungle, Sparse Jungle, and Bamboo Jungle biomes. Like Short Grass, Ferns change color by biome and can be sheared to drop as items.\nLarge Ferns can be placed by Bone Mealing existing Ferns; shearing Large Fern yields two regular Ferns. Otherwise, they only appear as loot in Taiga village chests.\nThey share placement requirements with Grass: only on Grass Blocks, Podzol, Mycelium, Dirt, Coarse Dirt, Rooted Dirt, Mud, Moss Block, Azalea Moss Block, and Muddy Mangrove Roots.\n(The term “Fern” in English covers all ferns; Bedrock Edition calls them “Fern Plants.”)",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Dead Bush",
"description": "Found in Desert, Badlands, Wooded Badlands, and Eroded Badlands biomes, in Short and Tall forms. Bone Mealing Short Dead Bush grows Tall Dead Bush; Bone Mealing Tall Dead Bush spawns Short Dead Bushes in a 4-block cross around it, only on valid placement blocks.\nShears or Silk Touch tools can harvest Dead Bushes as items. They also serve as furnace fuel, burning for 5 seconds, and composting yields a 30% chance of raising the compost level.\nPlacement blocks include Grass Block, Podzol, Mycelium, Dirt, Coarse Dirt, Rooted Dirt, Mud, Moss Block, Azalea Moss Block, Muddy Mangrove Roots, plus Sand, Red Sand, Suspicious Sand, and all Terracotta colors.\n(In Bedrock Edition: “Short Dead Bush” and “Tall Dead Bush.”)",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Fuel"],
"crafting_recipe": [None],
"optimal_tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Bush · Firefly Bush",
"description": "Bushes generate naturally in Plains, Windy Hills, Windy Forests, Windy Gravelly Hills, Forests, Birch Forests, Old-Growth Birch Forests, Rivers, and Frozen Rivers, and their color varies by biome like grass blocks. They can be harvested with Shears or a Silk Touch tool to drop themselves.\n\nFirefly Bushes generate in Swamps and along Rivers and emit glowing firefly particles around them. Unlike regular bushes, they drop themselves without Shears, and their color does not change by biome.\n\nBoth types compost at a 30% chance per item. They can only be placed on Grass Block, Podzol, Mycelium, Dirt, Coarse Dirt, Rooted Dirt, Mud, Moss Block, Azalea Moss Block, and Muddy Mangrove Roots. When bone-mealed, they spread to one valid neighboring placement block in each cardinal direction (Java: blocked by any obstruction; Bedrock: Firefly Bushes replace any grass-type block, regular Bushes only replace grass-type except Firefly Bush).",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Dead Bush",
"description": "Dead Bushes generate in Desert, Badlands, Wooded Badlands, Eroded Badlands, Old-Growth Pine Taiga, Old-Growth Spruce Taiga, Swamps, and Mangrove Swamps. Breaking one drops 0–2 Sticks, and they can be harvested intact with Shears.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [],
"optimal_tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Flowers",
"description": "Flowers are non-collision blocks found throughout the Overworld. Applying Bone Meal to a Grass Block grows grass and a biome-appropriate flower. (Bedrock only: Bone Mealing a planted flower spawns copies on nearby grass blocks.)\n\nThey yield dyes and can be potted. Some produce Suspicious Stew and serve as Mushrooms’ food. Bees use flowers as work blocks and are attracted when held; feeding bees accelerates breeding and baby growth.\n\n• Dandelion: Common in most Plains and Forest biomes. Crafts Yellow Dye; attracts and feeds Rabbits.\n• Poppy: Common in Plains and Forests. Crafts Red Dye; gifted by Iron Golems to baby villagers and drops from them.\n• Blue Orchid: Swamp biome; crafts Light Blue Dye.\n• Allium: Flower Forest & Meadow; crafts Magenta Dye.\n• Azure Bluet: Common in Plains & Forests; crafts Light Gray Dye.\n• Tulip: Plains & Forests; 4 colors, each crafting its corresponding Dye (White Tulip → Light Gray).\n• Oxeye Daisy: Plains & Forests; crafts Light Gray Dye.\n• Cornflower: Plains & Forests; crafts Blue Dye.\n• Lily of the Valley: Plains & Forests; crafts White Dye.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material", "Food"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Cactus Flower",
"description": "Cactus Flowers can randomly generate on top of Cacti: 10% chance per tick on 1–2-high Cacti, 25% on 3-high Cacti, provided there is room to grow. When present, the Cactus stops growing further.\n\nUnlike regular flowers, they can be placed on any block (but not in flower pots). They craft Pink Dye and compost at a 30% chance.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material", "Food"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Eyeblossom",
"description": "Eyeblossoms generate in clusters in the Dripstone Caves (“Pale Garden”) biome. They have two states: Closed Eyeblossom (Gray Dye) and Open Eyeblossom (Orange Dye). Open blooms appear bright orange but emit no light.\n\nThey keep eyes closed during the day, begin opening at ~12 500 ticks, and keep eyes open at night, beginning to close at ~23 400 ticks. Each transition emits a single orange or gray particle and a soft sound. In the Nether and End, they remain permanently in their current state.\n\nTheir opening/closing speed depends on randomTickSpeed, and they signal adjacent Eyeblossoms within a 3×2 area to synchronize. The more clustered, the faster the cycle. Pots exclude them from this interaction. Bees are only attracted to Open Eyeblossoms; interacting with them grants honey but inflicts Poison I for a short time on players at Hard difficulty. Potting them prevents this effect while retaining decorative use.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Wither Rose",
"description": "When a Wither’s attack kills any mob or player, a Wither Rose spawns at that location. Used to brew Suspicious Stew with the Wither effect and crafts Black Dye. Wither Roses attract bees but cannot be used for breeding, growth acceleration, or honey harvesting. On difficulties of Easy and above, mobs touching or eating a Wither Rose suffer Wither I for 2 seconds. To use decoratively without effect, plant them in a flower pot. Wither Skeletons are immune to its effect and can spawn on blocks with Wither Roses.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Flowers",
"description": "Among flowers, some are two-block-tall like grass and share the same non-collision behavior. Applying Bone Meal to planted flowers drops one additional item of the same type and yields two when crafting dye.
Sunflower
Generates in Sunflower Plains biomes and always faces east. Crafts Yellow Dye.
Lilac
Found in all Forest biomes. Crafts Magenta Dye.
Rose Bush
Found in all Forest biomes. Crafts Red Dye.
Peony
Found in all Forest biomes. Crafts Pink Dye.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Ancient Plants",
"description": "Seeds excavated by Sniffers can be planted on farmland. When fully grown and broken, they drop normal Overworld flowers as items. They have no other functional effect and do not drop seeds when harvested.
Torchflower
Resembles a torch. Used to craft Orange Dye or as a Suspicious Stew ingredient. Seeds breed Sniffers.
Pitcher
A two-block-tall blue pitcher plant. When planted, its seed is half-buried until the blue flower emerges. Crafts Cyan Dye; seeds have no further use. Pollinated by bees when harvested and replanted; unlike Wither Roses, does not damage mobs.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Pink Petals · Wildflowers",
"description": "Thin flowers that stack up to four per block. Pink Petals generate in Cherry Grove biomes and craft Pink Dye. Wildflowers generate in Birch Forest, Old-Growth Birch Forest, and Meadows and craft Yellow Dye. Applying Bone Meal to any spreadable stack adds one more; when all four slots are filled, each application drops one item. Composting yields a 30% chance to increase the compost level.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Bamboo",
"description": "Common in Jungle and Bamboo Jungle biomes, also obtained via fishing, pandas, or chest loot. Can be planted on Grass, Dirt, and Sand. Starts as a no-collision shoot and under light level ≥9 grows into a collidable stem. Grows 12–16 blocks tall very quickly; stems may be offset, creating uneven spacing. Axes are optimized but swords break it fastest at the cost of durability. Holding Bamboo attracts pandas; feeding Bamboo breeds them and accelerates baby growth. Bamboo can be crafted into Sticks: 2 Bamboo vertically yields 1 Stick, or 9 Bamboo yields 4 Sticks via Bamboo Planks. Functions as furnace fuel at half the efficiency of Sticks, cooking one item per four Bamboo.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe", "Sword"]


"item_name": "Sugar Cane",
"description": "Found along water edges. Grows naturally in any biome with water.
Can be planted on blocks adjacent to water (grass block, dirt, coarse dirt, podzol, sand, red sand, mud), even if the water is flowing rather than a source. Normally grows up to three blocks high, though world generation can create wild stands four or more blocks tall. Growth is independent of light level; in Bedrock Edition, Bone Meal can accelerate growth.
Occupies one block space but has no collision box and does not impede movement. In Java Edition, it is not destroyed by water, which can be used to create breathing spaces underwater.
The block’s color varies by biome.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Cactus",
"description": "Spawns in Desert and Badlands biomes, much more commonly in deserts. Generates 1 block high with 11/18 probability, 2 blocks high with 5/18, and 3 blocks high with 2/18; overlapping spawns can exceed three blocks. Also found in Desert Village chests and sold by Wandering Traders.
Can be planted on sand, red sand, or on another Cactus. While world-generated or player-stacked cacti can sometimes exceed three blocks, three is the normal maximum. Growth is unaffected by light; the tallest recorded Cactus reached 20 blocks.
Deals 1 damage per 0.5 seconds to any entity touching any of its five sides. Items touching a Cactus may be destroyed (even Netherite items and Nether Stars). If a player dies by Cactus, the death message reads “<player> was pricked to death.”
Cannot have solid blocks adjacent on its sides—any growth that would cause contact is immediately destroyed as an item, a feature used in automatic farms.
Can be smelted into Green Dye, potted (becomes a smaller, non-damaging form), and composted (50% chance to raise compost level). Used to breed and accelerate baby Camel growth.",
"tags": ["Material", "Food"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Vines",
"description": "Naturally generate in Swamp, Jungle, and Lush Cave biomes, and may appear on the underside of large Jungle trees grown from 2×2 Saplings.
Thin non-solid blocks (1/16 thickness) that attach only to solid blocks; if placed, they also grow on the underside of the block above.
Each block tick there is a 25% chance to spread to a random adjacent face; if there is a block directly below, they can grow sideways up to three blocks. When growing downward without attachment, they dangle and connect like chains.
Players can see through dangling Vines, but mobs cannot. Entities can pass through them; sprinting into them cancels sprint. Breaking the top of a dangling Vine removes the entire strand.
Holding jump while attached climbs like a ladder; sneaking while attached hangs in place.
Drops nothing when broken normally; use Shears to collect as an item.
The block’s color varies by biome.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Movement"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Weeping Vines · Twisting Vines",
"description": "Nether variants of Vines that grow in Crimson Forests (Weeping Vines) and Warped Forests (Twisting Vines).
Weeping Vines can be planted on a block’s underside and grow downward; Twisting Vines plant on a block’s top and grow upward.
Each segment has an age value from 0 to 24, incrementing by 1 each growth tick until it reaches 25 and stops. If the tip is broken, a new tip is assigned a random age.
Breaking either with bare hands yields a 30% chance to drop as an item; Fortune increases this chance (Fortune III guarantees 100%), or use Shears.
Right-clicking with Shears on a Vine segment halts its growth.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Movement"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Spore Blossom",
"description": "Found in Lush Cave biomes on hanging Moss Blocks.
When placed, green spore particles fall from the flower and swirl around it. Purely decorative, with no gameplay effect.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Dripleaf",
"description": "Found in lush cave biomes. Small Dripleaf can be planted on clay and moss blocks, and when submerged also on dirt, coarse dirt, farmland, grass block, or podzol. Bone Meal grows it into Big Dripleaf, and shears are required to collect it. Big Dripleaf can be planted on clay, coarse dirt, dirt, farmland, grass block, moss block, mycelium, podzol, or rooted dirt. Using Bone Meal causes it to grow one block at a time, and breaking any segment drops a Big Dripleaf item for each segment above the break. You can stand on Big Dripleaf leaves, but they begin to tilt after 20 ticks (1 second), become non-solid, and drop any entities on them. They also fully tilt when hit by projectiles. Tilted leaves return to normal after a short delay. A Redstone signal prevents tilting but does not stop projectile-induced tilting. In Bedrock Edition they are called “Dripleaf.”",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Small: Shears", "Big: Axe"]


"item_name": "Glow Lichen",
"description": "Found underground, especially common in underground canyons and occasionally underwater, but not in Deep Dark biomes. It is 1/6 block thick but has no collision and can attach to all faces of full blocks. Applying Bone Meal spreads Glow Lichen to adjacent full-block faces. Breaking it normally yields nothing; shears collect it, while an axe breaks it fastest. Its blue glow can resemble Diamond Ore on stone or deepslate from a distance.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Light Source"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe", "Shears"]


"item_name": "Hanging Roots",
"description": "Found beneath naturally generated Azalea trees and created by applying Bone Meal to Rooted Dirt. Can be placed on the underside of blocks. Breaking it normally yields nothing; shears are required to collect it.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe", "Shears"]


"item_name": "Chorus Plant",
"description": "Forms Chorus Plants that grow on End outer islands between 5 and 22 blocks high regardless of light level. They must be planted on End Stone. Growth begins at Chorus Flowers, which grow upward, sometimes branching horizontally, and spawn new Chorus Flowers. Mature Chorus Flowers adopt a withered texture; when broken they revert to the flower state and can be replanted. Breaking Chorus Plants yields Chorus Fruit with a chance. When disconnected, all attached Chorus Plants and Chorus Flowers break. In Bedrock Edition they are referred to as “Chorus.” An official Mojang interview revealed the design was inspired by bananas as they’re not true trees and must be replanted. Chorus Flowers also break when hit by arrows.",
"tags": ["Chorus Fruit Acquisition"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Seeds",
"description": "Various seeds used for farming. Wheat Seeds are obtained by breaking grass or ferns or harvesting mature wheat. Pumpkin Seeds come from shearing or destroying pumpkins or pumpkin stems; pumpkins also generate on any exposed face of mature stems. Melon Seeds are crafted from melon slices, obtained by destroying melon stems, or found in certain chests; melons generate from mature stems on any adjacent face with a solid block beneath. Beetroot Seeds are obtained by harvesting mature beetroots or found in some chests. Seeds can also be used to breed and accelerate the growth of chickens and train parrots.",
"tags": ["Farming", "Food"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Cocoa Beans",
"description": "Cocoa pods generate on the sides of jungle log blocks in Jungle, Sparse Jungle, and Bamboo Jungle biomes. They have age values 0–2; breaking an age 0 or 1 pod yields 1 bean, and breaking an age 2 pod yields 3 beans. Cocoa Beans can be replanted on jungle logs, crafted into Brown Dye, or used as an ingredient in Cookies.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Frogspawn",
"description": "Frogspawn appears as egg blocks laid by frogs on water source blocks with air above. Each cluster hatches within ten minutes into 2–5 tadpoles. In Survival, these egg blocks cannot be collected as items.",
"tags": ["Tadpole Hatching"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Turtle Eggs",
"description": "Turtle Eggs are laid in clusters of up to four on sand, red sand, or suspicious sand. When they hatch, that many baby turtles emerge simultaneously. To collect a Turtle Egg block intact, use a Silk Touch tool; otherwise they simply break and disappear. Falling entities have a 1/3 chance per fall to crack an egg; standing on them has a 1/100 chance per tick to crack one (crouching prevents cracking). Zombies and zombified piglins will attempt to step on and break nearby eggs. Eggs only hatch when placed on sand variants; each tick has a 1/500 chance to advance the crack stage, with full hatching between 21 600 and 22 550 ticks (game time ~3:36–4:33 AM), requiring a player within 128 blocks.",
"tags": ["Turtle Hatching"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Sniffer Egg",
"description": "Sniffer Eggs appear when suspicious sand in Ocean Ruins is brushed by the Sniffer or when breeding two adult Sniffers. Unlike Turtle Eggs, Sniffer Eggs drop as items without Silk Touch and resetting their incubation if broken. They crack in stages over 20 minutes before hatching a baby Sniffer; placing them on Moss Blocks halves the incubation time to 10 minutes.",
"tags": ["Sniffer Hatching"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Lily Pad",
"description": "Lily Pads generate on water surfaces in Swamp biomes and in Woodland Mansion farming rooms; they can also be fished up as treasure (Bedrock) or junk (Java), and sold by Wandering Traders. They can only be placed on still water or ice, support player standing and block mob spawns, and allow easy bridging by placing blocks beneath them (the pad breaks but the block remains). Walking or jumping on them makes no sound. They compost at 65% efficiency and break into items when struck by a fast-moving boat. Their orientation is fixed by placement position and cannot be changed.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Seagrass",
"description": "Seagrass generates underwater in oceans, rivers, underwater caves, and swamps. It can also drop from turtles when killed. You can plant it by using Bone Meal on any opaque block underwater.\nThere are two variants: one-block and two-block tall. To get the two-block variant, apply Bone Meal to the one-block variant. Unlike grass, the two-block seagrass has no item form.\nFeeding a pair of turtles Seagrass puts them into love mode to breed. It composts at a 30% chance.\nBreaking it drops nothing; use Shears to collect it.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Shears"]


"item_name": "Kelp",
"description": "Kelp grows near Seagrass in all ocean biomes except Frozen and Warm variants. Wandering Traders may sell it.\nIt can only exist in vertical source or flowing water, turning any block space it occupies into a water source. This lets you fill deep spaces easily to create infinite water.\nPlayers can stack Kelp like Sugar Cane or Cactus; breaking the bottom breaks the entire column into items.\nEach random tick it has a 14% chance to grow, unaffected by light; Bone Meal accelerates growth. It has an age value from 0–24 that increments on each growth until 25.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Dried Kelp Block",
"description": "Crafted from Dried Kelp and can be broken back into the item.\nAs furnace fuel it smelts 20 items—2.5× the efficiency of coal or charcoal. It composts at a 50% chance.\nIn Bedrock Edition it unlocks a fuel-use achievement.",
"tags": ["Fuel", "Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Dried Kelp in all nine crafting grid slots to make a Dried Kelp Block."],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Sea Pickle",
"description": "Sea Pickles attach to coral blocks in Warm Ocean reefs. They spread when Bone Meal is applied, spawning 1–3 new pickles in a 5×5 area. They emit light underwater but not when exposed to air.\nSmelted in a furnace they yield Lime Dye. They compost at a 65% chance.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Coral Block",
"description": "Forms part of Warm Ocean coral reef biomes. All living coral blocks dye themselves gray and die if broken without Silk Touch, and cannot be revived if placed out of water. Use Silk Touch to keep them alive, and ensure placed coral touches water immediately.\nEach color family uses a different texture and prefix:\n• Blue – Tube Coral\n• Pink – Brain Coral\n• Purple – Bubble Coral\n• Red – Fire Coral\n• Yellow – Horn Coral\nTo breed Sea Pickles, place them on living coral blocks.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Coral",
"description": "A block that forms part of the Warm Ocean coral reef biome. Can be placed on the top face of a block.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Fan Coral",
"description": "A block that forms part of the Warm Ocean coral reef biome. Can be placed on all faces except the underside; when placed on a side, it appears folded vertically.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Sponge",
"description": "Found in Ocean Ruins or dropped by Elder Guardians. Wet Sponge particles drip from the underside when placed. To use for water absorption, dry it by smelting in a furnace or placing it in the Nether. Smelting wet sponge with an empty bucket in the fuel slot fills the bucket with water as it dries. A dried Sponge placed absorbs all water within a taxi-cab distance of 7 blocks (about 65 blocks of water) around itself and turns into Wet Sponge. It cannot absorb water behind solid blocks. In Bedrock Edition, wet sponges dry in a few minutes when placed in dry biomes, and dry sponges placed in a dry biome absorb water with a hiss and steam effect, drying instantly.",
"tags": ["Water Absorption"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Smelt Wet Sponge in a furnace to obtain Sponge."],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Pale Moss Block · Carpet",
"description": "Blocks that form part of the ‘Pale Garden’ biome and are sold by Wandering Traders. Pale Moss Carpet is crafted from Pale Moss Block and is one of the plants that grow when Bone Meal is applied to Pale Moss Block. Shares most properties with carpets but can be composted.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Fallen Leaves",
"description": "A thin natural block that generates in Forest, Dark Forest, and Wooded Badlands biomes, with color varying by biome. Can also be obtained by smelting Leaf blocks. Up to four can stack in one space. Functions as furnace fuel for 5 seconds (like sticks or saplings) and composts with a 30% chance.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Fuel"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Smelt Leaf blocks in a furnace to obtain Fallen Leaves."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Watermelon",
"description": "A watermelon stem grows a melon on any adjacent block with a solid block beneath it, producing one melon per stem. Watermelon also appears naturally in Jungle biomes and Savannah villages and can be crafted from melon slices. Breaking the block drops 3–7 melon slices; a Fortune-enchanted axe increases the drop count, and Silk Touch preserves the block intact.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place melon slices in all nine crafting grid slots to craft a Watermelon block."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Pumpkin",
"description": "A pumpkin stem grows a pumpkin on any adjacent block with a solid block beneath it, yielding one pumpkin per stem. Pumpkins can also generate in any Overworld biome on grass blocks or be found growing in Taiga villages. The stem’s face always points northwest. Interacting with shears carves the pumpkin into a Carved Pumpkin and drops one pumpkin seed. Carved Pumpkins are used to summon Golems and can be worn as helmets without angering Endermen; their stem always points to the wearer’s left.",
"tags": ["Building", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Use shears on a Pumpkin to carve it."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Jack o’Lantern",
"description": "Crafted from a Carved Pumpkin and a Torch. Jack o’Lanterns are used in Golem-summoning structures, cannot be moved by Pistons, and break when pushed. On October 31 (PC local time) in Java Edition, Zombies and Skeletons have a 2.5% chance to spawn wearing Jack o’Lanterns; killing them may drop the worn lantern, with Looting increasing the chance.",
"tags": ["Building", "Light Source", "Golem Crafting"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place a Carved Pumpkin in slot 8 and a Torch in slot 5 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": ["Axe"]


"item_name": "Hay Bale",
"description": "Crafted from Wheat and can be broken back into Wheat. Found in Plains, Desert, and Savannah villages, and often used for scarecrow structures at Pillager Outposts. Placed Hay Bales reduce fall damage by 80%, allowing survival from 100-block falls with half a heart remaining. They feed Horses to restore health and breed Llamas; when placed under a Campfire, they raise the smoke higher.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place nine Wheat in all crafting grid slots to craft a Hay Bale."],
"optimal_tool": ["Hoe"]


"item_name": "Bee Nest Block",
"description": "A decorative block crafted from Honeycomb. It has no functional use, cannot be decomposed back into its raw material, and takes 0.9 seconds to break with any tool or by hand.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Honeycomb in slots 1, 2, 4, 5 of the crafting grid to craft a Bee Nest Block."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Resin Block",
"description": "Crafted from resin lumps and can be broken down back into resin lumps.",
"tags": ["Decoration"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place resin lumps in all nine crafting grid slots to craft a Resin Block."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Sculk",
"description": "A primary block in the Deep Dark biome. Found in Ancient City chests or created when a block is mutated by a Sculk Catalyst. Wool placed on it transmits Sculk vibrations through the wool’s surface. Breaking it normally yields 1 experience; Silk Touch is required to collect it.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Sculk Vein",
"description": "A 1/16-thick decoration block in the Deep Dark biome, generated by Sculk Catalysts. Can attach to all faces. Breaking it drops nothing; Silk Touch is required to collect it.",
"tags": ["Building"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Sculk Catalyst",
"description": "Found in the Deep Dark and occasionally in Ancient City chests; always dropped by the Warden. When any mob or player dies within eight blocks, it absorbs the XP and transforms all sculk_replaceable blocks in range into Sculk, spawning Sculk Veins around them. Nearby Sculk emits swirling green bubble particles that spread the mutation further. Higher XP yields a larger spread and a chance to spawn Sculk Sensors (9%) or Sculk Shriekers (1%) if fewer than two exist nearby. Deaths that drop no XP (including the Ender Dragon’s) do not trigger the mutation. Breaking yields 5 XP; Silk Touch is required to collect it.",
"tags": ["Sculk Generation"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Sculk Shrieker",
"description": "Generates in the Deep Dark via Sculk Catalysts or worldgen Ancient Cities. When stepped on or when receiving Sculk vibrations from a Sensor, it emits a 4.5-second shriek and then has a 10-second (effectively 5.5-second) cooldown. World-generated Shrieker blocks also inflict Darkness I for 12 seconds on nearby players and raise their warning level—summoning the Warden at warning level 4 if conditions are met. Player-placed or catalyst-generated Shriekers lack these effects; you can distinguish them by the color and rotation of their soul-like core. Breaking yields 5 XP; Silk Touch is required to collect it.",
"tags": ["Building", "Warden Summoning"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Pickaxe"]


"item_name": "Cobweb",
"description": "Found in stronghold libraries, mineshafts, dungeons, and zombie villages. Any entity except spiders and cave spiders is severely slowed when touching it. It has no collision box so you can pass through, but its slowing effect makes it an obstacle. Used in Potion of Slow Falling brewing and can be farmed by killing mobs under the effect of Infested Web (it drops 1–2 cobwebs). Breaking it normally yields String; use Shears to collect it intact.",
"tags": ["Decoration", "Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": ["Shears", "Sword"]


"item_name": "Bedrock",
"description": "Generates in layers at Y=-64 to -60 in the Overworld, Y=0–4 and ceiling at Y=127 in the Nether, and as part of End gateway platforms and central island structures. Cannot be broken or collected by any means in Survival (only via creative, commands, or glitches). Unmovable by pistons and resistant to any practical explosion. Forms the barrier between the world and the Void and the Nether ceiling. Endermen cannot place blocks on it. In the End only, fire placed on bedrock burns indefinitely.",
"tags": ["World Boundary"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Dried Ghast",
"description": "Crafted from 1 Soul Sand and 8 Ghast Tears or found rarely in Nether fossils and via Piglin bartering. When placed underwater in the Overworld, it glows and begins hatching over 20 minutes in stages, changing its face three times before spawning a baby Ghast. Breaking a hatching block resets its state; if removed from water it gradually dries again.",
"tags": ["Ghast Breeding"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Soul Sand in slot 5 and Ghast Tears in slots 1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Coal & Charcoal",
"description": "Coal drops from mining Coal Ore; Charcoal is obtained by smelting any Overworld log in a furnace. Both serve as furnace fuel: one piece burns for 80 seconds, smelting up to 8 items (10 seconds each). Wood and planks burn 1.5 items per piece. Coal can be compressed into blocks and traded with villagers; Charcoal cannot. Both substitute for each other in torches and campfires. Early-game, Charcoal offers a reliable fuel source when Coal is scarce.",
"tags": ["Material", "Fuel"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Mine Coal Ore or smelt logs in a furnace."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Iron",
"description": "Raw Iron is obtained by mining Iron Ore; smelt it to produce Iron Ingots. Iron Ingots also drop from Zombies, Iron Golems, and can be found in chests. Iron is essential for tools capable of mining diamonds, crafting armor, buckets, hoppers, shears, anvils, compasses, rails, lanterns, chainmail, and for trading with villagers. Iron Ingots can be crafted into Iron Nuggets (9 per ingot) and vice versa.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Smelt Raw Iron in a furnace."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Copper",
"description": "Raw Copper is obtained by mining Copper Ore; smelt Raw Copper in a furnace to produce Copper Ingots. Copper Ingots sometimes drop from Drowned. Smelting Ore also yields Ingots, but mining always drops at least two Raw Copper, so smelting Raw Copper is more efficient. Copper is not used for tools or armor but is abundant at higher elevations and is compressed into building blocks. It is also used to craft Lightning Rods, Spyglasses, Copper Blocks, and Waxed Copper items.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Smelt Raw Copper in a furnace to make Copper Ingots."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Gold",
"description": "Raw Gold is obtained by mining Gold Ore underground; smelt Raw Gold in a furnace to produce Gold Ingots. Ingots also drop from Zombified Piglins and in some chests. Gold Ore can be smelted directly, but mining yields at least one Raw Gold, making smelting Raw Gold more efficient. Gold is a longstanding underground resource used to power Beacons. Piglins do not attack players wearing at least one piece of gold armor, and you can barter with Piglins using Gold Ingots. Gold tools and armor exist but have very low durability. Gold Ingots can be crafted into Gold Nuggets (9 per Ingot) and vice versa, and Nuggets also drop from Smelting gold-based items and from some mobs and chests.",
"tags": ["Material", "Piglin Trading"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Smelt Raw Gold in a furnace to make Gold Ingots."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Emerald",
"description": "Emeralds are obtained by mining Emerald Ore or by smelting in a furnace, and also drop from Vindicators and Ravagers or are found in some chests. You can trade with Villagers or Wandering Traders to acquire them. Nine Emeralds craft into an Emerald Block for decoration. Emeralds are primarily used as Villager trading currency; both buying and selling use Emeralds, so any surplus can be sold to Villagers to increase your stock. Even late-game, Emeralds purchase enchanted books, Golden Carrots, and other items you might otherwise craft.",
"tags": ["Villager & Trader Currency"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Mine Emerald Ore with a pickaxe or smelt in a furnace."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Lapis Lazuli",
"description": "Lapis Lazuli is obtained by mining Lapis Lazuli Ore or by smelting in a furnace. It also appears in some chests or can be traded from Clerics. Its main use is in enchanting equipment—each enchantment level requires 1–3 Lapis Lazuli. It can also be crafted into blue dye.",
"tags": ["Material", "Enchanting Resource"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Mine Lapis Lazuli Ore with a pickaxe or smelt in a furnace."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Diamond",
"description": "Diamonds are obtained by mining Diamond Ore underground or found in some chests. Diamonds craft tools, armor, Jukeboxes, Enchantment Tables, and serve as parts of Repeaters and other redstone components. A classic mid-game resource, Diamond tools outperform Iron in speed and durability. Nine Diamonds craft a Diamond Block for storage or decoration.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Mine Diamond Ore with an Iron pickaxe or better."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Netherite",
"description": "Netherite Scrap is obtained by smelting Ancient Debris in a furnace; four Netherite Scraps and four Gold Ingots craft one Netherite Ingot. Both Scrap and Ingots can be found in Bastion Remnant chests. Netherite is an upgrade over Diamond and is applied only to Diamond gear. Netherite items and Ancient Debris blocks do not burn or despawn when exposed to lava or fire, and Netherite armor worn by a player does not lose durability from fire or lava.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Smelt Ancient Debris to make Netherite Scrap. Place Netherite Scraps in slots 4, 7, 8, 9 and Gold Ingots in slots 1, 2, 5, 6 of the crafting grid to craft a Netherite Ingot."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Nether Quartz",
"description": "Nether Quartz is obtained by mining Nether Quartz Ore or by smelting it in a furnace. It also appears in Piglin bartering and Bastion Remnant chests. Quartz blocks are used for building decoration, redstone components, and crafting polished variants such as Smooth Quartz, Quartz Pillar, and Chiseled Quartz. Quartz’s addition coincided with the Redstone Update, suggesting its design was inspired by Quartz Clocks.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Mine Nether Quartz Ore with a pickaxe or smelt it in a furnace."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Amethyst Shard",
"description": "Amethyst Shards drop when Amethyst Clusters are broken. They can also be found in Ancient City and Bastion Remnant loot chests. Four Shards craft an Amethyst Block; they are also used to craft tinted glass and are ingredients for the Tinkered Sculk Sensor and the Spyglass. Feeding Shards to dancing Allays summons new Allays.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Stick",
"description": "Sticks are crafted from wooden planks or Bamboo; they also drop from breaking leaves, dead bushes, or as fishing junk. Sticks are a versatile material used in nearly all tools, torches, fences, signs, and more. In early-game cave exploration, carrying sticks and planks ensures you can craft torches when Coal is scarce.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place two wooden planks or two Bamboo vertically in the crafting grid to craft four Sticks."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Flint",
"description": "Flint drops occasionally when Gravel is broken or can be traded from Fletcher villagers. It is used to craft Flint and Steel and arrows. Since obtaining large quantities by mining Gravel is tedious, players often rely on villager trades or Skeleton drops to acquire Flint. Outside these uses, Flint generally remains unused.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Wheat",
"description": "Obtained by planting wheat seeds on farmland and harvesting the fully grown crop. It can also be obtained by breaking hay bales or found in certain structure chests. Primarily used to craft bread, cookies, and cake, and as feed and breeding food for various animals. Holding Wheat attracts sheep, cows, mooshrooms, and goats within range; interacting feeds and puts them in love mode to breed, and feeding baby animals accelerates their growth by 10%. Feeding wild horses and llamas helps tame them, and feeding tamed ones restores their health.",
"tags": ["Material", "Animal Feed"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Snowball",
"description": "Obtained by digging Snow with a shovel or breaking Snow Blocks without Silk Touch. Used to craft Snow Blocks and can be thrown by right–clicking. On impact, snowballs only knock back mobs without dealing damage—except Blazes, which take 3 points of damage. In future updates, they may be used to lure or feed Froglights.",
"tags": ["Material", "Projectile"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Egg",
"description": "Laid by chickens every 5–10 minutes as an item entity. The egg’s color varies by chicken variant: tropical chickens lay brown eggs, temperate chickens lay white, and cold chickens lay blue. Occasionally foxes may spawn holding an egg. Eggs can be thrown forward; on impact there is a 12.5% chance to spawn one baby chicken, and a further 3.125% chance (1/32) each to spawn up to three additional chicks (max four total).",
"tags": ["Material", "Projectile"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Honeycomb",
"description": "Obtained by using shears on a full Hive or Beehive (without smoking it, which otherwise agitates the bees). One Honeycomb and one String can be combined to craft a Candle. Using Honeycomb on a Copper Block applies wax to prevent oxidation; placing many in a crafting grid yields Waxed Copper Blocks. Applying it to a sign locks its text from further editing.",
"tags": ["Material", "Waxing"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Clay Ball",
"description": "Obtained by breaking Clay Blocks or found in village chests. Breaking a Clay Block always yields four Clay Balls if not using Silk Touch. Clay Balls can be recombined into Clay Blocks or smelted in a furnace to make Bricks.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Bowl",
"description": "Crafted from wooden planks. Also obtained when a Turtle is killed by lightning. Used to make soups and stews; after consuming those items you get the bowl back. Interact with a Mooshroom to get Mushroom Stew or with a Brown Mooshroom fed a flower to get Suspicious Stew granting that flower’s effect.",
"tags": ["Stew Crafting"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place wooden planks in slots 2, 4, and 6 of the crafting grid."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Brick",
"description": "Bricks are made by smelting Clay Balls in a furnace or trading with a Mason. Also used to craft Flower Pots. Nether Bricks are made by smelting Netherrack or bartering with Piglins and used for fences and Red Nether Brick. Resin Bricks are made by smelting Resin Lumps; in Bedrock Edition they are called Resin Bricks.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Smelt Clay Balls, Netherrack, or Resin Lumps in a furnace to obtain Brick, Nether Brick, or Resin Brick respectively."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Paper & Book",
"description": "Paper is crafted from Sugar Cane and found in Shipwrecks, Villages, and Stronghold libraries. Books are crafted from Paper and Leather and used for Bookshelves, Maps, and enchanted books via an Enchanting Table.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place sugar cane in slots 4, 5, and 6 to craft Paper; place Paper in slots 7, 8, 9 and Leather in slot 4 to craft a Book."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Firework Star",
"description": "Crafted from Gunpowder, Dye, and optional additional ingredients. Adds explosion effects to Firework Rockets; without a Firework Star rockets still launch but produce no visible effect. Different ingredients modify the explosion shape, color, and special effects.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Gunpowder in slot 7 and Dye in slot 8 to craft a Firework Star."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Armadillo Scale",
"description": "Dropped by Armadillos every 5–10 minutes or obtained using a Brush. Used to craft Wolf Armor. In Bedrock Edition this item is called Armadillo Shell.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Bone",
"description": "Bones are primarily obtained by defeating Skeleton variants or by fishing. They can also be found in certain structure chests. Bones can be crafted into Bone Meal or used to tame wolves. They cannot be worn, but if equipped on the head via commands, they appear in the mouth area as if the wearer is holding a bone.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "String",
"description": "String is obtained by defeating Spiders, Cave Spiders, Striders, or Cats, by breaking Cobwebs with a sword, or through Piglin bartering. It can be placed like a block to connect Tripwire Hooks for traps. Placed String is almost invisible unless viewed closely and drops when exposed to flowing water, lava, or moved by pistons. It can float without support to create hidden scaffolding and prevent plant growth when placed above crops or decorative plants.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Feather",
"description": "Feathers are obtained by defeating Chickens or Parrots. They are used to craft Arrows, Books and Quills, and other items. They cannot be worn, but if placed on the head via commands, they appear stuck to the back of the head like a plume.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Leather",
"description": "Leather is obtained by defeating Cows, Horses, or Llamas. It can also be crafted from four Rabbit Hides. Leather is used to craft armor, Books, Item Frames, and other items.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": ["Place Rabbit Hide in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting grid to craft Leather."],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Ink Sac",
"description": "Ink Sacs are obtained by defeating Squids; Glow Ink Sacs come from Glow Squids. Ink Sacs are used to craft books, dyes, and can remove Glowing effects from signs. Glow Ink Sacs are used to make sign text glow, making it visible in the dark. Zombies do not pick up these items.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Turtle Shell",
"description": "Drops when a baby turtle grows into an adult. Baby turtles are difficult to raise, making Turtle Shells very rare. Does not drop from killing adult or baby turtles. Used to craft Turtle Shell helmets.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


"item_name": "Slime Ball",
"description": "Primarily obtained by defeating the smallest Slime mobs; very rarely produced when Pandas sneeze. Can be compressed into a Slime Block and used to craft Sticky Pistons, Leads, and Magma Cream. Feeding Slime Balls to frogs causes them to breed and accelerates Tadpole growth.",
"tags": ["Material"],
"crafting_recipe": [null],
"optimal_tool": [null]


    "item_name": "Blaze Rod & Blaze Powder",
    "description": "Blaze Rods are dropped by Blazes when defeated and can be used as furnace fuel. They’re also ingredients in several recipes, including the Brewing Stand. In Bedrock Edition they’re called “Blaze Rod.” Blaze Powder is crafted from a Blaze Rod (1 → 2) and serves as both Brewing Stand fuel and a brewing ingredient: it turns Awkward Potions into Potions of Strength and is required to craft Eyes of Ender, making it essential for reaching the End.",
    "tags": ["ingredient", "fuel"],
    "recipe": ["Place 1 Blaze Rod in any crafting slot to yield 2 Blaze Powder."],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Nether Star",
    "description": "The Nether Star is obtained by defeating the Wither and is used to craft the Beacon. Unlike other items, Nether Stars in item form are immune to explosions and have a 10-minute despawn timer in Java Edition (or never despawn in Bedrock Edition). However, placing one in an item frame and detonating an explosion will destroy it.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Prismarine Shard & Prismarine Crystals",
    "description": "Prismarine Shards are dropped by Guardians, and Prismarine Crystals are obtained by breaking Sea Lanterns without Silk Touch. Both are used to craft Prismarine blocks and their variants.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Nautilus Shell & Heart of the Sea",
    "description": "Nautilus Shells are acquired by killing Drowned holding one, as a Treasure catch when fishing, or by trading with Wandering Traders (called “Nautilus” in Bedrock Edition). Hearts of the Sea are guaranteed finds in buried treasure chests. Both are ingredients for crafting Conduits.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Shulker Shell",
    "description": "Shulker Shells drop when defeating Shulkers and are used to craft Shulker Boxes.",
    "tags": ["shulker box crafting"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Popped Chorus Fruit",
    "description": "Popped Chorus Fruit is made by smelting Chorus Fruit in a furnace. It’s used to craft Purpur Blocks and End Rods.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": ["Smelt Chorus Fruit in a furnace to obtain Popped Chorus Fruit."],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Echo Shard & Disc Fragment",
    "description": "Echo Shards and Disc Fragments are found in Ancient City chests. Echo Shards are used to craft the Recovery Compass.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Pottery Sherd",
    "description": "Pottery Sherds drop when mining Suspicious Sand or Suspicious Gravel. Four matching Sherds craft a Pottery item, with the pattern determined by the Sherd variant.",
    "tags": ["decorated pottery ingredients"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Smithing Template",
    "description": "Smithing Templates are loot from various structures and can only be crafted if you have the original template plus diamonds and the blocks specific to that template. They’re used at a Smithing Table to add decorative patterns to armor. You can include one additional ingredient to color the pattern, and templates work on any armor piece regardless of matching materials. The template is consumed on use. Valid coloring materials include Iron Ingot, Copper Ingot, Gold Ingot, Diamond, Redstone Dust, Lapis Lazuli, Emerald, Amethyst Shard, Deepslate Brick, Nether Quartz, and Netherite.",
    "tags": ["armor decoration"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Smithing Template: Netherite Upgrade",
    "description": "Found in Bastion Remnant chests (guaranteed) and with a 10% chance in other chests, the Netherite Upgrade template is also craftable with 7 Diamonds, 1 Netherite Scrap, and a base template. It’s the only template that upgrades Diamond gear to Netherite gear at a Smithing Table, altering equipment stats. Usage and crafting follow standard template rules, with all ingredients and the template consumed.",
    "tags": ["netherite gear crafting"],
    "recipe": ["Place Diamonds in slots 1,2,3,4,6,7,9; Netherite Scrap in slot 5; and the Netherite Upgrade template in slot 8 of a crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["None"]


    "item_name": "Trial Key & Ominous Trial Key",
    "description": "Trial Keys can drop from the Trial Generator in the Hall of Trials. Using the Ominous Trial Sigil effect to create an Ominous Trial Generator yields Ominous Trial Keys. Trial Keys open Vaults; Ominous Trial Keys open Ominous Vaults.",
    "tags": ["vault opening"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Breeze Rod",
    "description": "Dropped by Breezes when defeated. Used together with Heavy Cores to craft the Flail, and also as an ingredient for the Whirlwind Orb, the Smithing Template: Flowing Armor Decoration, and the Potion of Gust.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Heavy Core",
    "description": "When opening an Ominous Vault with an Ominous Trial Key, there is a 7.5% chance to obtain a Heavy Core. Used together with Breeze Rods to craft the Flail.",
    "tags": ["flail crafting"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Resin Clump",
    "description": "When you strike a Crackling directly, Resin Clumps generate on the faces of Pale Wood blocks around the Crackling’s Heart. Like Glow Lichen, they can attach to all block faces. They can be smelted in a furnace to make Resin Bricks, or compressed into Resin Blocks.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Dye",
    "description": "Dye is the base ingredient for all 16 colors in Minecraft. You can apply dyes to wool (crafting or right-click sheep), beds, carpets, banners (including patterns on a loom), Shulker Boxesⓦ, candles, stained glass and panes, terracotta (and glaze it via furnace), leather armorⓦ and leather horse armorⓦ, tamed wolves/cats (collar color), and Bedrock-edition shulkers. You can remove dye in a cauldron of water (ⓦ). Dyes are also used in firework stars to customize explosion colors.",
    "tags": ["color application"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Glass Bottle",
    "description": "Crafted from 3 Glass. When used to drink potions or milk, or when collecting Honey Bottles, you get back an empty Glass Bottle. You can also obtain them from Piglin bartering or fishing. Fill empty bottles at a water source or water-filled cauldron to make Water Bottles for brewing. Glass Bottles also collect Dragon’s Breath from the Ender Dragon’s fireball impact cloud, and honey from filled Bee Nests or Beehives.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": ["Place Glass in slots 2, 4, and 6 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Nether Wart",
    "description": "Found in Nether Fortress chests and growing on Soul Sand in Nether Fortresses. When mature and broken, yields 2–4 Nether Wart. Used to craft Red Nether Bricks and Nether Wart Blocks, and as a brewing ingredient to turn Water Bottles into Awkward Potions.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Glowstone Dust",
    "description": "Obtained by breaking Glowstone or dropped by Witches. Can be recombined into Glowstone blocks, used to craft Spectral Arrows, and as a brewing ingredient to increase a potion’s level while halving its duration. When added to Water Bottles, creates Thick Potions.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Gunpowder",
    "description": "Dropped by Creepers, Ghasts, and Witches, and found in various chest loot. Used to craft TNT, Firework Rockets, and Firework Stars; required for sustained Elytra flight rockets. As a brewing ingredient, converts potions into Splash Potions.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Dragon’s Breath",
    "description": "Collected by using a Glass Bottle on the cloud left by an Ender Dragon’s acid fireball impact. Used in brewing to turn Splash Potions into Lingering Potions, which place a lingering effect cloud at the impact site. After brewing, the empty bottle is returned.",
    "tags": ["lingering potion crafting"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Spider Eye & Fermented Spider Eye",
    "description": "Spider Eyes drop from Spiders, Cave Spiders, and Witches and appear in Desert Temple chests. Eating one restores a small amount of hunger and applies Poison for 5 seconds. In brewing, they convert Awkward Potions into Poison Potions and Water Bottles into Mundane Potions. They can also lure, breed, and grow Armadillos. Fermented Spider Eyes are crafted from a Spider Eye, Brown Mushroom, and Sugar; not edible. In brewing, they convert Potions of Healing or Poison into Potions of Harming, Swiftness or Leaping into Slowness Potions, and Night Vision into Invisibility Potions.",
    "tags": ["material", "consumable (Spider Eye)"],
    "recipe": ["Place Spider Eye in slot 7, Sugar in slot 8, and Brown Mushroom in slot 4 of the crafting grid to make a Fermented Spider Eye."],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Sugar",
    "description": "Crafted from Sugar Cane or Honey Bottles; also dropped by Witches (0–3). Used in confectionery recipes and to craft Fermented Spider Eyes. In brewing, converts Awkward Potions into Potions of Swiftness and Water Bottles into Mundane Potions. Feeding Sugar to a horse restores 1 health, reduces growing time by 30 seconds, and increases taming chance by 3%.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": ["Place Sugar Cane or a Honey Bottle in any crafting slot."],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Rabbit’s Foot",
    "description": "Dropped by Rabbits with a 10% + (3% × Looting level) chance; occasionally gifted by tamed cats. In brewing, converts Awkward Potions into Potions of Leaping and Water Bottles into Mundane Potions. Also used in trades with Cleric villagers.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Glistering Melon Slice",
    "description": "Crafted from 8 Gold Nuggets and 1 Melon Slice. In brewing, converts Awkward Potions into Potions of Healing and Water Bottles into Mundane Potions.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": ["Place Gold Nuggets in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 and a Melon Slice in slot 5 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Magma Cream",
    "description": "Dropped by Magma Cubes or crafted from 1 Slimeball and 1 Blaze Powder. Four Magma Cream craft into a Magma Block. In brewing, converts Awkward Potions into Potions of Fire Resistance and Water Bottles into Mundane Potions.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": ["Place a Slimeball in slot 7 and Blaze Powder in slot 8 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Ghast Tear",
    "description": "Dropped by Ghasts. In brewing, converts Awkward Potions into Potions of Regeneration and Water Bottles into Mundane Potions.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Phantom Membrane",
    "description": "Dropped by Phantoms; occasionally gifted by tamed cats. Used in an Anvil to repair Elytra. In brewing, converts Awkward Potions into Potions of Slow Falling and Water Bottles into Mundane Potions.",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Banner Pattern",
    "description": "Used to apply banner patterns not supported by the loom’s default library. Place a Banner Pattern with a banner and dye in the loom UI; the pattern item is not consumed on use. There are 10 patterns total: six craftable on a crafting table, and four obtained uniquely—Globe via Cartographer villager trade, Snout via Bastion Remnant chest, Flow via Ominous Vault (15% chance), and Guster via Hall of Trials chest or reward box (4.2% chance).",
    "tags": ["material"],
    "recipe": [
      "Combine paper with Brick Block, Vine, Flower, Creeper Head, Skeleton Skull, or Golden Apple to craft the Brick, Indented Border, Flower Charge, Creeper Charge, Skull Charge, or Globe patterns, respectively."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Bottle o' Enchanting",
    "description": "Obtained from trades with Cleric villagers or looted in Pillager Outposts, Shipwrecks, and Ancient City chests (or buried treasure in Bedrock). Thrown like a splash potion; on breaking it releases 3–11 experience orbs.",
    "tags": ["experience acquisition"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Enchanted Book",
    "description": "Created by enchanting a book at an Enchanting Table; also found by fishing, looting structures, or trading with Librarian villagers. Contains any Enchantment obtainable on tools, weapons, or armor. Enchantments can be transferred via anvil and removed with a grindstone.",
    "tags": ["enchantment"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Torch",
    "description": "Crafted from a Stick and Coal or Charcoal. Placeable on top or sides of blocks (side-placed torches tilt). Breaks into an item if its supporting block is removed. A basic light source that prevents hostile mob spawning. Soul Torches use Soulsand/Soul Soil instead of a block and emit blue light; Piglins avoid them.",
    "tags": ["building", "light source"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place a Stick in slot 5 and Coal or Charcoal in slot 8 of the crafting grid.",
      "Soul Torch: Stick in slot 5, Coal or Charcoal in slot 8, and Soul Sand or Soul Soil in slot 2."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Lantern",
    "description": "Crafted from Iron Nuggets and a Torch. Can be hung from or placed on ceilings and floors; breaks if its support is removed. Soul Lanterns are made from a Soul Torch and Iron Nuggets and emit blue light—Piglins avoid them. Use Lanterns for ceiling or underwater lighting; they are slightly brighter than Torches.",
    "tags": ["building", "light source"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place a Torch or Soul Torch in the center and surround it with 8 Iron Nuggets in the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Chain",
    "description": "Crafted from Iron Ingots and Iron Nuggets; also generates in Bastion Remnants and the Hall of Trials, and in abandoned mineshaft ceilings. Chains can hold Lanterns and serve as narrow hanging supports.",
    "tags": ["building"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place an Iron Ingot in slot 5 and Iron Nuggets in slots 2 and 8 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "End Rod",
    "description": "Crafted from a Blaze Rod and Popped Chorus Fruit; also found in End City structures. Can be placed on any face—standing upright, hanging upside-down, or projecting horizontally. Acts as both a building block and light source; cannot be passed through. Breaks if water flows over it.",
    "tags": ["building", "light source"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place a Blaze Rod in slot 8 and Popped Chorus Fruit in slot 5 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Sea Lantern",
    "description": "Crafted from Prismarine Shards and Prismarine Crystals; naturally generates in Ocean Monuments and ruins. A decorative light-emitting block used in conduit structures. Without Silk Touch, breaking drops only Prismarine Crystals (2–3).",
    "tags": ["building", "light source"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place Prismarine Shards in corners (slots 1, 3, 7, 9) and Prismarine Crystals in the other five slots of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Frog Light",
    "description": "Dropped when a Frog eats a Small Magma Cube. Comes in three colors, determined by the frog’s variant. Emits light like a Lantern.",
    "tags": ["building", "light source"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Candle",
    "description": "Crafted from Honeycomb and String; Ivory Candles are the default color. Place up to four of the same color in one block space; light with Flint & Steel or Fire Charge. Can be placed on a cake and will drop as an item if the cake is eaten. Dye any candle by combining it with dye.",
    "tags": ["building", "light source"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place Honeycomb in slot 5 and String in slot 8 to craft an Ivory Candle; combine Ivory Candle with any Dye to create a colored candle."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Crafting Table",
    "description": "Crafted from Wooden Planks. Unlocks the 3×3 crafting grid needed for most recipes (versus 2×2 in the player inventory). Used to build nearly all tools, weapons, armor, and blocks. Known as “Work Bench” in Bedrock Edition.",
    "tags": ["item crafting"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place Wooden Planks in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "Stonecutter",
    "description": "Crafted from Stone and an Iron Ingot; generates in villages with Mason villagers. Allows precise and efficient cutting of stone and copper blocks into slabs, stairs, walls, and more—saving up to 33% of materials versus the crafting table. Also used by Mason villagers as a workstation.",
    "tags": ["stone and copper block processing"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place Stone in slots 1, 2, 3 and an Iron Ingot in slot 5 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Cartography Table",
    "description": "Crafted from Wooden Planks and Paper; found in villages with Cartographer villagers. Used to copy, expand (zoom), and lock maps. Expands maps from 128×128 to 2048×2048 area across four zoom levels using one paper each (versus eight on a crafting table). Locked maps become unmodifiable.",
    "tags": ["map work"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place Wooden Planks in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 and Paper in slots 7 and 8 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "Smithing Table",
    "description": "Crafted from Wooden Planks and Iron Ingots; found in villages with Toolsmith villagers. Used to apply Smithing Templates—including the Netherite Upgrade—to upgrade Diamond tools, weapons, and armor to Netherite while preserving durability, name, and enchantments. Also used to decorate armor with patterns and colors.",
    "tags": ["netherite tool crafting", "armor decoration"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place Wooden Planks in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5 and Iron Ingots in slots 7 and 8 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "Grindstone",
    "description": "Crafted from wooden planks, sticks, and a stone slab. Found in villages with Weaponsmiths. Has two slots: place an enchanted item in one slot to remove all non-curse enchantments and return experience (amount scales with enchantment level and count), also clearing the prior work penalty. Cannot remove Curse of Binding or Vanishing. Placing two identical items combines them, repairing durability (sum plus 5%) and removing any prior work penalty. Attaches differently depending on the face placed. Weaponsmiths use it as a workstation.",
    "tags": ["disenchanting"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place wooden planks in slots 1 and 3, a stone slab in slot 5, and sticks in slots 4 and 6 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Loom",
    "description": "Crafted from wooden planks and string. Found in villages with Shepherds. Used to apply patterns to banners: place a banner in the left-top slot, dye in the right-top, and optionally a banner pattern in the bottom slot. Offers default patterns even without a pattern item. Slot orientation is from the banner’s perspective. Shepherds use it as a workstation.",
    "tags": ["banner crafting"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place wooden planks in slots 4 and 5, and string in slots 7 and 8 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "Furnace",
    "description": "Crafted from cobblestone (can substitute some or all with blackstone or deepslate cobblestone in Java). Heats and processes items: three internal slots (input top-left, fuel bottom-left, output right). Removing the input resets progress; if fuel runs out mid-smelt, progress reverses. Yields experience when a player extracts output. Automatable via hoppers: top for input, side for fuel, bottom for output. Automated furnaces retain experience until broken.",
    "tags": ["item heating"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place cobblestone in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Smoker & Blast Furnace",
    "description": "Smoker: crafted from a Furnace and any wood logs. Smokes food items twice as fast as a Furnace; used by Butchers. Blast Furnace: crafted from a Furnace, Smooth Stone, and iron ingots. Smelts ores and metal items twice as fast; used by Armorers. Both share Furnace mechanics, with double processing speed (fuel burn time also halves twice as fast).",
    "tags": ["item heating"],
    "recipe": [
      "Smoker: place a Furnace in slot 5 and any wood logs in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8.",
      "Blast Furnace: place a Furnace in slot 5, Smooth Stone in slots 1, 2, and 3, and iron ingots in slots 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Campfire",
    "description": "Crafted from logs, coal or charcoal, and sticks. When placed, it’s lit by default and deals 1 fire damage per tick to entities standing on it. Extinguishable by water, splash/lingering bottles, or right-click with a shovel; not by rain. Relight with Flint & Steel, Fire Charge, Blaze Fireball, or Ghast Fireball. Can cook up to four food items (potatoes, meat, fish, kelp) over 30 s without fuel. Emits smoke up to 10 blocks (24 with a hay bale underneath), usable to calm bees. Drops two charcoal when broken; requires Silk Touch to pick up while lit. Soul Campfire uses Soul Sand/Soil, deals 2 damage per tick when walked on, drops Soul Soil when broken, and is avoided by Piglins.",
    "tags": ["light source", "food cooking"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place logs in slots 1, 2, and 3; coal or charcoal in slot 5; and sticks in slots 4, 6, and 8 of the crafting grid.",
      "Soul Campfire: same as above but use Soul Sand or Soul Soil instead of coal/charcoal."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "Anvil",
    "description": "Crafted from three iron blocks (each made from nine ingots) and four iron ingots. Used to repair items (combine two of the same item or use raw materials), rename with name tags or spawn eggs, and combine enchantments from books or items—maintaining durability, custom names, and existing enchantments. Inflicts a prior work penalty that doubles with each operation. Anvils fall like sand/gravel, dealing (fall height – 1)×2 damage on landing, and sustain durability damage (becoming Chipped and then Damaged) until they break.",
    "tags": ["item combining"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place iron ingots in slots 1, 2, 3, and 5, and iron blocks in slots 7, 8, and 9 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Composter",
    "description": "Crafted from wooden slabs. Found in villages with Farmers. Inserts excess crops, byproducts, and other items to generate bone meal. Each item has a chance to increase the fill level; at level 7 the top turns white—right-click to collect bone meal. Different items have specific fill probabilities. Emits a redstone signal proportional to fill level. Farmers use it as a workstation.",
    "tags": ["bone meal production"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place wooden slabs in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and 9 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "Enchanting Table",
    "description": "Crafted from obsidian, diamonds, and a book. Place an item in the left slot and lapis lazuli in the right to choose from three enchantment options (costing 1–3 lapis and levels). Used to enchant tools, weapons, armor, and books. Known as “Effectding Table” in Bedrock Edition.",
    "tags": ["item enchantment"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place obsidian in slots 1, 2, 3, and 5; diamonds in slots 4 and 6; and a book in slot 8 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Brewing Stand",
    "description": "Crafted from cobblestone and a blaze rod. Found in villages with Clerics, igloo basements, and End Cities. Brew potions by placing up to three bottles in the bottom slots, an ingredient in the top slot, and blaze powder in the fuel slot. Each blaze powder supports 20 brews. Automatable with hoppers: top for ingredients, side for bottles, bottom for brewed potions. Known as “Brewing Stand” in Bedrock Edition and doesn’t require a pickaxe to drop.",
    "tags": ["potion brewing"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place cobblestone in slots 1, 2, and 3, and a blaze rod in slot 5 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Fletching Table",
    "description": "Crafted from wooden planks and flint. Found in villages with Fletchers. Currently has no direct player crafting function. Serves as the Fletcher’s workstation; interacting as a spectator briefly flashes the crafting UI.",
    "tags": ["villager workstation"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place wooden planks in slots 1, 2, 4, and 5, and flint in slots 7 and 8 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "Jukebox",
    "description": "Crafted from wooden planks and a diamond. Insert a music disc to play its track; interacting again stops playback and returns the disc. Can be loaded or unloaded by hoppers. Parrots and Allays dance to music; Allays can reproduce when dancing with an amethyst shard. Emits a comparator signal that varies by disc. On Mobile Bedrock, a free music pack from the Marketplace is required for disc sounds.",
    "tags": ["music playback"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place wooden planks in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9, and a diamond in slot 5 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]


    "item_name": "End Crystal",
    "description": "Crafted from glass, an eye of ender, and a ghast tear. Found atop the obsidian pillars on the End’s outer islands. Explodes like a charged creeper when broken or hit. Heals the Ender Dragon with a beam that restores 1 point of health every 0.5 seconds when within range. Can be placed on the exit portal frame to respawn the dragon when detonated.",
    "tags": ["ender dragon summoning and fight"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place glass in slots 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9; a ghast tear in slot 2; and an eye of ender in slot 5 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": []


    "item_name": "Cauldron",
    "description": "Crafted from iron ingots. Found in villages with Leatherworkers and in witch huts. Holds water, powder snow, or lava—fill and empty with buckets. Auto-fills with rain or dripstone in appropriate biomes. Use water to wash dye off dyed banners, leather armor, or shulker boxes (consumes 1/3 water). Leatherworkers use non-lava cauldrons as workstations; lava-filled cauldrons do not function as one.",
    "tags": ["liquid storage"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place iron ingots in slots 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, and 9 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Bell",
    "description": "Cannot be crafted. Found in village centers/wells, can be obtained via trades with Armorers, Weaponsmiths, Toolsmiths, or from ruined portal chests. Ring by right-click, redstone signal, or projectile (Bedrock also rings when items drop on it). When rung, villagers within 32 blocks gather or take shelter; sleeping villagers wake up. In Java, also briefly highlights raid mobs within 32 blocks. Different appearances when placed on floor, wall, or ceiling. Piglins can pick up bell items.",
    "tags": ["villager gathering", "raid detection"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]


    "item_name": "Beacon",
    "description": "Crafted from glass, a nether star, and obsidian. Alone, emits light level 15. When placed atop a pyramid of iron, gold, diamond, emerald, or netherite blocks, grants nearby players selected status effects. Sends a beam skyward up to 1024 blocks; beam color changes based on stained glass placed above. Over 12 million color variations possible with layered panes.",
    "tags": ["beacon structure core"],
    "recipe": [
      "Place obsidian in slots 1, 2, and 3; a nether star in slot 5; and glass in slots 4, 6, 7, 8, and 9 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "optimization_tools": []

   
    "item_name": "Conduit",
    "description": "Crafted from 8 Nautilus Shells and 1 Heart of the Sea. Alone it provides light, but when activated in water with a frame of at least 16 blocks of Prismarine variants (Prismarine, Prismarine Bricks, Dark Prismarine, Sea Lanterns) arranged in a 5×5×5 shell around it and water filling the 3×3×3 core, the Conduit opens and grants the 'Conduit Power' effect—combining Underwater Breathing, Haste, and Night Vision while submerged or in rain. The effect persists indefinitely within range, which scales from 32 to 96 blocks based on frame size (16→32 m, 21→48 m, 28→64 m, 35→80 m, 42→96 m). A full 42-block frame also deals 4 damage (2 hearts) every 2 s to hostile mobs within 8 blocks if they are underwater or in rain.",
    "tags": ["underwater buff"],
    "recipe": ["Place 8 Nautilus Shells in all slots except center, and Heart of the Sea in center of crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"],
   

    "item_name": "Lodestone",
    "description": "Crafted from Chiseled Stone Bricks and an Iron Ingot, or found in Bastion Remnant and Ruined Portal chests. Right-click with a Compass to bind it; the Compass then always points to that Lodestone across dimensions until it’s broken or you travel to another dimension.",
    "tags": ["compass focus"],
    "recipe": ["Place Chiseled Stone Bricks in all slots except center, and Iron Ingot in center of crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"] ,
   

    "item_name": "Ladder",
    "description": "Crafted from Sticks. Placeable on the side of any solid block; breaks if its support is removed. Players climb or descend by moving into it; holding Shift stops sliding. Mobs cannot use ladders.",
    "tags": ["vertical movement"],
    "recipe": ["Fill all slots except corners with Sticks in a ‘H’ pattern on the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"] ,
   

    "item_name": "Scaffolding",
    "description": "Crafted from Bamboo and String, or found in Hall of Trials chests. Functions as temporary building scaffolding: placeable on any full block; hollow inside for easy passage. Jump to climb up, crouch to descend. Collapses if unsupported more than 6 blocks horizontally. Can serve as a makeshift elevator but is flammable and breaks if the base is removed.",
    "tags": ["high work/vertical travel"],
    "recipe": ["Place Bamboo in slots 1, 3, 5, 7 and String in slot 8 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Bee Nest",
    "description": "Naturally generates on oak, birch, mangrove and other trees near flowers. Holds up to 3 bees. Becomes filled with honey over time; use a Glass Bottle to collect Honey Bottle or Shears to collect Honeycomb (angering the bees) when full. Smoke from a Campfire beneath prevents aggression.",
    "tags": ["honey collection"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Beehive",
    "description": "Crafted from Wooden Planks and Honeycomb. Functions like a Bee Nest but is player-placed and drops with Silk Touch. Bees inside will not sting when harvesting if there’s smoke underneath. Can be sheared for Honeycomb or emptied with a Glass Bottle.",
    "tags": ["honey collection"],
    "recipe": ["Place Honeycomb in slots 4, 5, 6 and Wooden Planks in slots 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Vault",
    "description": "Found in the Hall of Trials. Activates when an unopened Vault is approached by a player, and opens with a Trial Key, dispensing random loot out its top until deactivated. Tracks up to 128 opening players—the Vault reactivates for any player who has never opened it, allowing infinite re-looting in multiplayer.",
    "tags": ["reward chest"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Flower Pot",
    "description": "Crafted from Brick Blocks. Used to display single plants (flowers, mushrooms, saplings, cacti, bamboo, small dripleaves, ferns, etc.). The planted item becomes decorative only, except Twisting Vines still repel Hoglins.",
    "tags": ["plant decoration"],
    "recipe": ["Place Brick Blocks in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Armor Stand",
    "description": "Crafted from Smooth Stone Slab and Sticks. Can display armor, carved pumpkins, mob heads, and Elytra. As an entity, drops when broken; falls like gravity-affected blocks and can be pushed by flowing water or Sweeping Edge attacks.",
    "tags": ["armor decoration"],
    "recipe": ["Place Smooth Stone Slab in slot 2 and Sticks in slots 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Item Frame",
    "description": "Crafted from Sticks and Leather. Attach to walls, floors, or ceilings and place any item inside for display. Right-click rotates the display. Named items show their name when you crosshair-hover within 5 blocks.",
    "tags": ["item display"],
    "recipe": ["Place Leather in center slot and surround with Sticks on the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Painting",
    "description": "Crafted from Wool and Sticks. Places a randomly chosen design (26 variants) on a wall space up to 4×4 blocks. Can be used to conceal doors or create pixel art when combined with maps.",
    "tags": ["art display"],
    "recipe": ["Place Wool in center slot and surround with Sticks on the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Bookshelf",
    "description": "Crafted from Books and Wooden Planks. Decorates and powers Enchanting Tables—15 are required to reach max enchantment level. Breaks into 3 Books unless Silk Touch is used.",
    "tags": ["decoration", "enchantment boost", "book storage"],
    "recipe": ["Place Books in slots 4, 5, 6 and Wooden Planks in slots 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 9 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Sign",
    "description": "Crafted from Wooden Planks and Sticks. Placeable on floors or walls; opens text GUI for up to 4 lines. Can be dyed or glowing with Glow Ink Sac. Locked signs via Honeycomb prevent editing until broken.",
    "tags": ["text display"],
    "recipe": ["Place Wooden Planks in slots 1, 2, 3, 4 and Sticks in slot 5 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   
  
    "item_name": "Hanging Sign",
    "description": "Crafted from Chains and stripped logs or wood. Hangable from ceilings or walls; two variants: Wall Hanging Sign (chain attached to wall), and Hanging Sign (chain hanging from below block).",
    "tags": ["text display"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Banner",
    "description": "Crafted from Wool and Sticks. Can hold up to 6 patterns via Loom (or 16 via commands). Patterns can be removed with a Cauldron of water (1/3 per use), and empty banners can be duplicated.",
    "tags": ["decoration", "shield customization"],
    "recipe": ["Place Wool in slot 2 and Sticks in slots 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Pottery",
    "description": "Found in the Hall of Trials or crafted from 4 Pottery Shards or Bricks. The appearance depends on the arrangement and variants of shards/bricks used. Breaking with a tool returns the shards/bricks; breaking by hand drops the complete Pottery item.",
    "tags": ["single-item storage"],
    "recipe": ["Place 4 Pottery Shards or Bricks in a 2×2 pattern on the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Chest",
    "description": "Crafted from Wooden Planks. Single Chests hold 27 slots; placing two adjacent forms a Large Chest with 54 slots. Cannot open if a solid block is directly above.",
    "tags": ["item storage"],
    "recipe": ["Place Wooden Planks in all slots except center of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Barrel",
    "description": "Crafted from Wooden Planks and Wooden Slabs. Functions like a Chest (27 slots) but opens even under a solid block and requires one fewer plank. Used as a Fisherman’s work station.",
    "tags": ["item storage"],
    "recipe": ["Place Wooden Slabs in slots 2, 4, 6, and 8 and Wooden Planks in slots 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Axe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Ender Chest",
    "description": "Crafted from Obsidian and an Eye of Ender. Holds 27 slots per player across all Ender Chests; items never drop when broken. Guarantees secure, private storage even across dimensions.",
    "tags": ["personal item storage"],
    "recipe": ["Place Obsidian in all slots except center, and Eye of Ender in center of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Shulker Box",
    "description": "Crafted from Shulker Shells and a Chest. Holds 27 slots and retains its contents when broken. Tooltip shows up to 5 item previews. Automatically opens its lid like a Shulker; must have space to open.",
    "tags": ["item storage"],
    "recipe": ["Place Chest in center slot and Shulker Shells in all surrounding slots of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]
   

    "item_name": "Respawn Anchor",
    "description": "Crafted from Crying Obsidian and Glowstone. Allows you to set your respawn point in the Nether. Right-click with Glowstone to charge (4 charges per block); each death respawns you at the anchor and consumes one charge. Using it uncharged or in the Overworld/End causes a large explosion like an unused bed.",
    "tags": ["Nether respawn point"],
    "recipe": ["Place Crying Obsidian in slots 1,2,3,7,8,9 and Glowstone in slots 4,5,6 of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": ["Diamond Pickaxe or better"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Bed",
    "description": "Crafted from three Wool and three Wooden Planks (any wood), with all wool matching in color. In the Overworld, right-click sets your respawn point and lets you sleep at night or during storms (no mob nearby). Exploding in the Nether or End when used.",
    "tags": ["Overworld respawn point", "time skip"],
    "recipe": ["Place three Wool in the top row and three Wooden Planks in the middle row of the crafting grid."],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Mob Heads",
    "description": "Include Wither Skeleton Skulls (2.5% drop, 100% by charged Creeper), Dragon Heads (found on End Ships), and Piglin Heads (from charged Creeper kills). Wearable for decoration; charged Creeper explosions drop Skeleton, Zombie, Creeper, and Piglin Heads. Wearing a mob’s head reduces that mob’s follow range by 50%.",
    "tags": ["decoration"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Dragon Egg",
    "description": "Appears atop the exit portal after the Ender Dragon’s first defeat. Cannot be mined normally—will teleport like an Enderman. Drops as an item if pushed by a piston onto a non-solid block.",
    "tags": ["decoration"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "End Portal Frame",
    "description": "Found in Stronghold portal rooms in a 3×3 square. Inserting Eyes of Ender into all frames triggers the portal, audible to all players in all dimensions.",
    "tags": ["End portal activation"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Infested Blocks",
    "description": "Seven variants (stone, deepslate, cobblestone, stone bricks, cracked stone bricks, mossy stone bricks, chiseled stone bricks). Look identical to their normal counterparts but break faster and spawn Silverfish when mined or broken.",
    "tags": ["silverfish ambush"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["Pickaxe"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Suspicious Sand & Suspicious Gravel",
    "description": "Found in certain ruins and structures. Use a Brush to reveal fossils, pottery shards, or Sniffer Eggs. Falls like normal sand/gravel but does not drop unless brushed or dropped into a bubble column for 30+ seconds.",
    "tags": ["archaeology"],
    "recipe": [],
    "optimization_tools": ["Shovel", "Brush"]
   
   
    "item_name": "Apple",
    "description": "Dropped from Oak and Dark Oak leaves at 0.5% chance, or found in chests and trades. Used to craft Golden Apples.",
    "tags": ["food ingredient"],
    "hunger": 4,
    "saturation": 2.4,
    "recipe": []
   
   
    "item_name": "Golden Apple",
    "description": "Crafted from eight Gold Ingots around an Apple. Grants Absorption II (2 hearts) and Regeneration II for 5 seconds. Stackable to 64.",
    "tags": ["food", "buff"],
    "hunger": 4,
    "saturation": 9.6,
    "recipe": ["Place Gold Ingots in all slots except center, and an Apple in center of the crafting grid."]
   
   
    "item_name": "Enchanted Golden Apple",
    "description": "Uncraftable; found in chests in dungeons, mineshafts, mansions, bastions, Ancient Cities, and Vaults. Grants Absorption IV (4 hearts) for 2 minutes, Regeneration II for 20 seconds, Fire Resistance for 5 minutes, and Resistance for 5 minutes.",
    "tags": ["food", "powerful buff"],
    "hunger": 4,
    "saturation": 9.6,
    "effects":  
      "Regeneration II": "20s",
      "Absorption IV": "2m",
      "Fire Resistance": "5m",
      "Resistance": "5m"
     

    "item_name": "Melon Slice",
    "description": "Breaking a melon block drops 3–7 slices. 9 slices can be crafted into a melon block, but the block cannot be reverted into slices. Even blocks you placed yield fewer than 9 slices when broken, making it inefficient. It's better to use a Silk Touch tool to collect melon blocks. Placing one slice in the crafting grid yields one melon seed. Surrounding a slice with 8 gold nuggets creates a Glistering Melon Slice. Has a 50% chance to increase composter level.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Crafting", "Farming"]


    "item_name": "Sweet Berries",
    "description": "Harvested from Sweet Berry Bushes in Taiga and Snowy Taiga, more common in Taiga. Low hunger and saturation but easy to farm. Bush resets to stage 2 after harvesting. Can be planted on most dirt types without light or water. Growth has 4 stages; only stages 3–4 drop berries. Right-clicking drops berries and resets the bush. Bush slows movement and causes damage from stage 2. Foxes are unaffected. Can be grown with bone meal. 30% chance to increase composter level.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Bush", "Farming"]


    "item_name": "Glow Berries",
    "description": "Can be planted on the underside of blocks, growing downward as Cave Vines. Each vine has an age value (0–25); it grows until reaching 25. Breaking and replanting can grow it infinitely. New vines may grow berries, or bone meal can force growth. Berries emit light level 14. In Java Edition, cutting the end vine with shears stops growth. In Bedrock Edition, Silk Touch tools drop berries. No need for light, soil, or water. Used to breed and grow foxes. 30% chance to increase composter level.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Vine", "Light"]


    "item_name": "Chorus Fruit",
    "description": "Obtained by breaking chorus plants in the End. Eating it causes teleportation within an 8-block radius, even with full hunger. Not useful for tactics due to long eating time. Smelting it produces Popped Chorus Fruit, which is not edible.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Teleportation", "End"]


    "item_name": "Carrot",
    "description": "Can be planted and farmed. Rare drop from zombies, or found in villages and shipwrecks. Can be used to lure, breed, and grow pigs and rabbits. Can be crafted with a fishing rod to make a Carrot on a Stick. Can be composted (65% chance).",
    "tags": ["Food", "Farming", "Breeding"]


    "item_name": "Golden Carrot",
    "description": "Crafted from 1 carrot and 8 gold nuggets. Found in bastions, ruined portals, ancient cities. High saturation (2nd highest after Suspicious Stew). Useful to supplement low-saturation foods. Used to brew Night Vision potions and for breeding horses and rabbits.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Potion", "Breeding"]


    "item_name": "Potato",
    "description": "Farmed by planting directly. Rare zombie drop or found in villages/shipwrecks. Fully grown potatoes drop 2–5 items. Used to breed pigs. Can be composted (65%). Smelting yields Baked Potato (85% compost chance). Poisonous Potato appears 2% of the time and may poison (60% chance, 4s), cannot be used, planted, or composted.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Farming", "Status Effect"]


    "item_name": "Beetroot",
    "description": "Farmed by planting beetroot seeds. Found in villages. Drops seeds and beetroots. Low nutritional value. Used to lure and breed pigs, and can be crafted into red dye. Can be composted (65% chance).",
    "tags": ["Food", "Dye", "Farming"]


    "item_name": "Dried Kelp",
    "description": "Crafted by smelting kelp. Very low hunger but quick to eat (0.8 sec). Good for bulk consumption. 30% chance to increase composter level. 9 dried kelp can be crafted into a fuel block.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Fuel", "Crafting"]


    "item_name": "Beef",
    "description": "Obtained by killing cows. Drops Raw Beef, which can be cooked into Steak via furnace/smoker/campfire. If killed while burning, drops Steak directly. Bedrock Edition calls it 'Uncooked Beef'.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Cooking", "Animal Drop"]


    "item_name": "Porkchop",
    "description": "Dropped by pigs or hoglins. Also found in Bastions and from butchers. Raw Porkchop can be cooked into Cooked Porkchop. If killed while burning, drops Cooked Porkchop directly.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Cooking", "Animal Drop"]


    "item_name": "Mutton",
    "description": "Dropped by sheep. Raw Mutton can be cooked into Cooked Mutton. If killed while burning, drops Cooked Mutton directly.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Cooking", "Animal Drop"]


    "item_name": "Chicken",
    "description": "Dropped by chickens or gifted by tamed cats while sleeping. Raw Chicken can be cooked into Cooked Chicken. Eating raw chicken has a 30% chance of Hunger for 30s (simulates Salmonella). Can be bought from butcher villagers.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Cooking", "Status Effect"]


    "item_name": "Rabbit",
    "description": "Dropped by rabbits. Raw Rabbit can be cooked into Cooked Rabbit. If killed while burning, drops Cooked Rabbit directly.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Cooking", "Animal Drop"]


    "item_name": "Rotten Flesh",
    "description": "Dropped by zombies, fishing junk loot, or cats. Also found in various structure chests. High chance (80%) of causing Hunger for 30s. Not suitable as food but can restore hunger in emergencies. Drinking milk cancels the effect. Common item, can be traded with cleric villagers or used to heal wolves (they’re immune to Hunger).",
    "tags": ["Food", "Status Effect", "Mob Drop"]


    "item_name": "Cod",
    "description": "Obtained by fishing or killing cod, polar bears, guardians, or dolphins. Raw Cod can be cooked into Cooked Cod. Cooked Cod may be found in buried treasure. Used to tame, breed, and grow cats.",
    "tags": ["Food", "Fishing", "Animal Drop"]


    "item_name": "Salmon",
    "description": "Raw Salmon is obtained by fishing or killing Salmon, Polar Bears, Guardians, or Dolphins. Cook in a Furnace, Smoker, or Campfire—or have a burning source mob kill it—to get Cooked Salmon. Raw Salmon can be used to tame and breed cats.",
    "hunger":  
      "raw": 2,
      "cooked": 6
     ,
    "saturation":  
      "raw": 0.4,
      "cooked": 9.6
     ,
    "recipe": [
      "Cook Raw Salmon in a Furnace, Smoker, or Campfire to obtain Cooked Salmon."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Tropical Fish",
    "description": "Tropical Fish are a rare catch when fishing. They restore 1 hunger and 0.2 saturation but have no other uses.",
    "hunger": 1,
    "saturation": 0.2,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Pufferfish",
    "description": "Pufferfish are caught by fishing or dropped by Drowned, Polar Bears, Guardians, or Dolphins. They restore 2 hunger and 0.2 saturation but inflict Poison II (1:00), Hunger III (0:15), and Nausea I (0:15) when eaten. They’re also used to brew Potions of Water Breathing and can be safely fed to Dolphins.",
    "hunger": 2,
    "saturation": 0.2,
    "effects":  
      "Poison II": "1:00",
      "Hunger III": "0:15",
      "Nausea I": "0:15"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Bread",
    "description": "Crafted from 3 Wheat. A reliable early-game food. Feeding into a Composter has an 85% chance to increase its level by 1.",
    "hunger": 5,
    "saturation": 6,
    "recipe": [
      "Place 3 Wheat in the top row of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Cookie",
    "description": "Crafted from 2 Wheat and 1 Cocoa Bean (yields 8). Restores 2 hunger and 0.4 saturation per cookie. Feeding to a Parrot will kill it.",
    "hunger": 2,
    "saturation": 0.4,
    "recipe": [
      "Place 2 Wheat in slots 1 and 3 and 1 Cocoa Bean in slot 2 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Cake",
    "description": "Crafted from 3 Wheat, 3 Buckets of Milk, 2 Sugar, and 1 Egg (returns empty buckets). Place as a block; right-click to eat up to 7 slices (2 hunger, 0.4 saturation each). Can mount a Candle (must be un-eaten cake).",
    "hunger":  
      "per_slice": 2,
      "total": 14
     ,
    "saturation":  
      "per_slice": 0.4,
      "total": 2.8
     ,
    "recipe": [
      "Place 3 Buckets of Milk in slots 1, 2, 3; 2 Sugar in slots 4 and 6; 1 Egg in slot 5; and 3 Wheat in slots 7, 8, 9 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Pumpkin Pie",
    "description": "Crafted from 1 Pumpkin, 1 Egg, and 1 Sugar (order does not matter). Restores 8 hunger and 4.8 saturation. Compostable at 100%.",
    "hunger": 8,
    "saturation": 4.8,
    "recipe": [
      "Place Pumpkin, Egg, and Sugar anywhere in the crafting grid."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Mushroom Stew",
    "description": "Crafted from 1 Brown Mushroom, 1 Red Mushroom, and 1 Bowl (order does not matter), or right-click a Brown Mushroom with a Bowl. Restores 6 hunger and 7.2 saturation.",
    "hunger": 6,
    "saturation": 7.2,
    "recipe": [
      "Place one of each: Brown Mushroom, Red Mushroom, and Bowl anywhere in the crafting grid."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Beetroot Soup",
    "description": "Crafted from 6 Beetroots and 1 Bowl. Restores 6 hunger and 7.2 saturation—same as eating 6 raw Beetroots.",
    "hunger": 6,
    "saturation": 7.2,
    "recipe": [
      "Place 6 Beetroots in a \"U\" shape and a Bowl in the center of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Rabbit Stew",
    "description": "Crafted from 1 Cooked Rabbit, 1 Carrot, 1 Baked Potato, 1 Mushroom (any), and 1 Bowl. Restores 10 hunger and 12 saturation. Bowl is consumed.",
    "hunger": 10,
    "saturation": 12,
    "recipe": [
      "Place Cooked Rabbit in slot 7, Baked Potato in slot 8, Carrot in slot 9, any Mushroom in slot 4, and Bowl in slot 5 of the crafting grid."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Suspicious Stew",
    "description": "Crafted like Mushroom Stew but add a Flower in the center slot. Grants a status effect based on the flower type when eaten. Restores 6 hunger and 7.2 saturation.",
    "hunger": 6,
    "saturation": 7.2,
    "recipe": [
      "Replace the center Mushroom with a Flower when crafting Mushroom Stew."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Honey Bottle",
    "description": "Right-click a full Bee Nest or Beehive with a Glass Bottle. Restores 6 hunger and 1.2 saturation, and cures Poison when drunk.",
    "hunger": 6,
    "saturation": 1.2,
    "recipe": [
      "Use a Glass Bottle on a full Bee Nest or Beehive."
    ],
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Bad Omen Bottle",
    "description": "Acquired by killing a Raid Captain or opening Vaults with Bad Omen. Grants the Bad Omen effect on use and is consumed (no empty bottle returned).",
    "hunger": 0,
    "saturation": 0,
    "effects":  
      "Bad Omen": "100:00"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Water Bottle",
    "description": "Right-click a water source or water-filled Cauldron with a Glass Bottle. No direct effect when drunk, but used as the base for all brewing recipes.",
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Mundane Potion",
    "description": "Brew Water Bottle with Redstone Dust, Blaze Powder, Sugar, Rabbit’s Foot, Glistering Melon Slice, Spider Eye, Magma Cream, Ghast Tear, Stone, Slime Block, Cobweb, or Breeze Rod. No effect in Java; creates Weakness in Bedrock when brewed with Fermented Spider Eye.",
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Night Vision",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with a Golden Carrot. Extend duration with Redstone Dust. Grants Night Vision: 3:00 (45s lingering) or 8:00 (2:00 lingering).",
    "effects":  
      "Night Vision": "3:00 / 8:00",
      "Lingering": "0:45 / 2:00"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Invisibility",
    "description": "Brew a Potion of Night Vision with a Fermented Spider Eye. Extend duration with Redstone Dust. Grants Invisibility: 3:00 (45s lingering) or 8:00 (2:00 lingering).",
    "effects":  
      "Invisibility": "3:00 / 8:00",
      "Lingering": "0:45 / 2:00"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Leaping",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with a Rabbit’s Foot. Extend with Redstone Dust; strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Grants Jump Boost I: 3:00 / 8:00 or Jump Boost II: 1:30 / 0:22 (lingering).",
    "effects":  
      "Jump Boost I": "3:00 / 8:00",
      "Jump Boost II": "1:30 / 0:22"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Fire Resistance",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Magma Cream. Extend duration with Redstone Dust. Grants Fire Resistance: 3:00 / 8:00.",
    "effects":  
      "Fire Resistance": "3:00 / 8:00"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Swiftness",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Sugar. Extend with Redstone Dust; strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Grants Speed I: 3:00 / 8:00 or Speed II: 1:30 / 0:22 (lingering).",
    "effects":  
      "Speed I": "3:00 / 8:00",
      "Speed II": "1:30 / 0:22"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Slowness",
    "description": "Brew a Potion of Swiftness or Leaping with a Fermented Spider Eye. Extend with Redstone Dust; strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Grants Slowness I: 1:30 / 0:22 or Slowness II (no lingering extension).",
    "effects":  
      "Slowness I": "1:30 / 0:22",
      "Slowness II": "0:20"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of the Turtle Master",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Turtle Shell. Extend with Redstone Dust; strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Grants Slowness IV and Resistance III (basic/extended) or Slowness VI and Resistance IV (strong).",
    "effects":  
      "Slowness IV & Resistance III": "0:20 / 0:40",
      "Slowness VI & Resistance IV": "0:20"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Water Breathing",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Pufferfish. Extend duration with Redstone Dust. Grants Water Breathing: 3:00 / 8:00.",
    "effects":  
      "Water Breathing": "3:00 / 8:00"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Healing",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with a Glistering Melon Slice. Strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Instant Health I restores 4 HP; Instant Health II restores 8 HP.",
    "effects":  
      "Instant Health I": "4 HP",
      "Instant Health II": "8 HP"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Harming",
    "description": "Brew a Potion of Healing or Poison with a Fermented Spider Eye. Strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Instant Damage I inflicts 6 HP; Instant Damage II inflicts 10 HP.",
    "effects":  
      "Instant Damage I": "6 HP",
      "Instant Damage II": "10 HP"
     ,
    "tags": []
   ,
   
    "item_name": "Potion of Poison",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with a Spider Eye. Extend with Redstone Dust; strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Poison I/II over time (duration varies by edition).",
    "effects":  
      "Poison I": "0:45 / 1:30",
      "Poison II": "0:21"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Regeneration",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with a Ghast Tear. Extend with Redstone Dust; strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Regeneration I/II over time (total healing varies).",
    "effects":  
      "Regeneration I": "0:45",
      "Regeneration II": "0:22"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Strength",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Blaze Powder. Extend with Redstone Dust; strengthen with Glowstone Dust. Strength I/II for melee damage boost.",
    "effects":  
      "Strength I": "3:00 / 8:00",
      "Strength II": "1:30 / 0:22"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Weakness",
    "description": "Brew a Water Bottle (or any base potion) with a Fermented Spider Eye. Extend with Redstone Dust. Weakness I/II reduces attack damage; no glowstone enhancement.",
    "effects":  
      "Weakness I": "1:30 / 4:00",
      "Weakness II": "0:20"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Decay",
    "description": "Bedrock-only, Creative-inventory item. Grants Wither II for 40 seconds (no extensions).",
    "effects":  
      "Wither II": "0:40"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Luck",
    "description": "Java-only, Creative-inventory item. Grants Luck status effect (5:00 / 1:15 lingering) and affects only fishing loot tables.",
    "effects":  
      "Luck": "5:00 / 1:15"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Slow Falling",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Phantom Membrane. Extend with Redstone Dust. Grants Slow Falling: 1:30 / 4:00.",
    "effects":  
      "Slow Falling": "1:30 / 4:00"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Gust",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with a Breeze Rod. No extensions or enhancements. On death, the entity creates a gust that knocks back nearby mobs.",
    "effects":  
      "Gust": "3:00 / 0:45 lingering"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Weaving",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Cobweb. No extensions or enhancements. On death, spawns cobwebs around the entity; partially offsets web slowdown when applied to the player.",
    "effects":  
      "Weaving": "3:00 / 0:45 lingering"
     ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Slime",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with a Slime Block. No extensions or enhancements. On death, spawns Medium Slimes that split into Small Slimes.",
    "effects":  
      "Slime": "3:00 / 0:45 lingering"  ,
    "tags": []


    "item_name": "Potion of Infestation",
    "description": "Brew an Awkward Potion with Stone. No extensions or enhancements. While active, each time the entity takes damage there is a 10% chance to spawn 1–2 Silverfish.",
    "effects":  
      "Infestation": "3:00 / 0:45 lingering"
     ,
    "tags": []

